can be used on the chips / powder of stubbles to hasten the decomposition process. otherwise, with the help of a rotavator, a tractor driven machine, the stubbles / stalk can be chopped in the field and residues can be incorporated into the soil, as it can till the soil up to 6 inches. this operation should be taken up well before the rainy season so as to permit faster decomposition of the chopped stubbles. this operation improves the soil porosity and productivity. it also helps in leveling of the soil, and retains the moisture. there is another way of utilizing the cotton stubbles by forming briquettes. cotton stubbles inherently have substantial energy content. the energy content varies from 17 mj / kg to 18 mj / kg. the stubbles can be chopped and then processed mechanically in a briquetter to form briquettes. these briquettes can be used as a renewable source of energy in substitution to fossil fuel. 8. 0 economics and profitability it has been found that undertaking these better management practices results in financial benefits for the farmers, in addition to maintaining soil sustainability. the advantage that bmp cotton cultivation has over conventional cotton cultivation is the significant reduction in input costs. a typical cost benefit analysis of bmp is given below : ( source : wwf india & crida ) 9. 0 monitoring methodology for assessing the bmp performance the performance of better management practices developed by wwf - india should be monitored by keeping a record of the activities implemented in the field. monitoring the performance of bmps allows the farmer to assess the right level of application of inputs, thereby reducing fertilizer application. it also helps in pest identification, reducing use of chemical pesticides and water consumption, increasing productive use of water and increase in cotton yield and profitability. farmers should be encouraged to maintain a farmer ' s diary for keeping a record of all the activities performed. this will help the farmers understand the benefits derived from adoption of better management practices in terms of reduction of inputs, increase in the yield and improved profitability. the present section describes the monitoring parameters and methodology to be adopted for gathering information at the field level. 9. 1 crop sowing 9. 2 land preparation 9. 3 fertilizer / manure application 9. 4 water application 1 pump discharge to be calculated for each and every individual by recording the time required to fill known volume of water 9. 5 pesticide application 9. 6 integrated pest management practices 9. 7 other intercultural operations 9. 8 harvest records abbreviations manual 2010 ind