retention. p deficiency : reflected in the lower leaves, plants are stunted and have dark green leaves, sometimes impart a purplish yellow color to the leaf. k deficiency : reflected in the lower leaves, occurs as interveinal chlorosis, dry leaves and premature shedding. s deficiency : seen on upper young leaves, first turn to light green, then to light yellow followed by a pronounced yellowing. ca deficiency : manifests as deformed and chlorotic leaves at the growing tip and stunted growth. 3. 4 soil test based nutrient application soil should be tested for its chemical properties by using the portable soil analysis kit. the analysis report can be used to plan the fertilizer application. micro nutrients deficiency is made up with proper application of compost / manure along with the main fertilizer.. cotton is generally prone to secondary nutrient deficiency particularly mg. in case of visible deficiency symptoms, mg and other micro nutrients are applied as foliar sprays at appropriate growth stages. soil testing kit being used for field soil testing © thirsty crop / wwf - india 3. 5 organic practices better management practices have been developed in such a way that they require the use of organic input practices in conjunction with inorganic fertilizers. different practices are mentioned below so that farmers can use these simple techniques and enhance the soil organic matter. tank silt application © thirsty crop / wwf - india © thirsty crop / wwf - india tank silt application : tanks are the naturally formed depressions ( small lakes ) with a strengthened bund. tanks are the unique irrigation structures in the warangal district of andhra pradesh. they normally have catchments that are rich in nutrients. soil loss in the catchments along with run off results in sedimentation of fertile top soil in the tank bed. the silt, which is finer fraction of the soil deposited in the tanks, is excavated and applied as an external amendment in cotton fields to improve water retention capacity and fertility. tank silt application has to be taken up as a group activity, which is encouraged in this project. preparation of vermicompost vermicompost : non - burrowing earthworms can convert organic crop and animal residues into compost which is rich in both major and minor nutrients and other plant growth promoting substances. farmers are aware on the use of vermicompost. the project supports the farmers to produce vermicompost by constructing simple, low cost vermicompost beds. cement rings ( 3 - 4 feet diameter ) are prepared at