, besides increasing the ridge spacing, thereby allowing one furrow to irrigate two paired rows. the paired row system of planting cotton crop can save around 30 % of irrigation water with no reduction in the yield as compared to the conventional furrow system. © thirsty crop / wwf - india drip irrigation method : application of drip or micro irrigation results in saving water and enhances the water use efficiency of cotton to a great extent. regulated and slow application of irrigation water through emitters / orifices enables the water to reach the root zone of plants at frequent intervals. drip irrigation has been found to enhance the yield of cotton by 27 % ( incid 1994 ). drip irrigation 5. 0 pest and disease management intercropping © thirsty crop / wwf - india during 1920 ' s, 34 types of insects were identified in cotton, among which, nine pests could cause severe losses. now the insects damaging cotton number around 100, out of which 15 insects can cause severe losses. reasons for more pest attacks in cotton : use of monocropping, or use of sole crops without in field diversity. higher number of irrigations and use of chemical fertilizers, applied for higher yields increase ' s susceptibility. indiscriminate spray of chemical insecticides even under low infestations kills the beneficial insects and upsets the ecological balance. this is also responsible for development of insecticide resistance. capacity building of farmers is essential for a sound pest management plan. knowledge and the ability to distinguish pests and beneficial insects helps in appreciating the ecological services of parasitoids and predators. the practice of regular pest and disease monitoring ( weekly ) enables estimation of pest attack and consideration of appropriate management options. when the pest population numbers exceed the number of beneficial insects, the farmer should adopt suitable interventions, thus giving due consideration to natural pest regulation. on - farm natural resources should be preferred for plant protection to reduce the external input costs. bio - intensive integrated pest management practices should receive priority over chemical pesticide applications. ploughing practices : boll worms during pupal stage hide in debris, stubbles and upper layers of the soil. summer deep ploughing practices are adopted to expose them to sun light. it helps to expose the pupae of bollworms, which are exposed to sunlight and predation by birds. enrichment of compost to fight soil borne plant diseases : when compost is enriched by mixing and growing natural antagonistic fungi ( triochoderma ) and applied as a top