practice helps in building up of favourable microbial activity and other soil organisms, apart from providing some amount of moisture and nutrients during dry spells. 4. 0 water management bmps on water management are developed to improve the water use efficiency in irrigated cotton. the water related bmps include adoption of water conservation techniques like drip irrigation and innovative techniques like paired row planting of cotton ( 60 cm apart as against 90 - 120 cm apart ) coupled with 120 cm inter spaces between 2 paired rows. other methods include skip row irrigation and furrow application technique by farmers who otherwise adopt flood irrigation irrespective of row length. 4. 1 critical stages of moisture requirement for cotton there are many stages during crop cultivation, when moisture is important for its growth. moisture is critical at the entry level of each stage. if the plant undergoes water stress during these stages, yields are significantly reduced. following are some points that the extension worker should keep in mind with respect to irrigation. if water is available for one irrigation, it should be provided at the flowering stage if water is available for two irrigations, it should be provided at the flowering and boll formation stages if water is available for three irrigations, it should be provided at the seedling, flowering and boll formation stages if water is not limited, irrigation should be provided every 15 days and water stagnation should be avoided. 4. 2 water management practices in cotton cultivation straight furrow : this is a surface irrigation method provided in between two furrows. furrows are developed between cotton crop rows during planting and interculture. water is applied by running small streams in furrows between crop rows. water infiltrates into the soil and spreads laterally to irrigate the area between the furrows. alternate irrigation : under this method, the area in between the rows is irrigated using a combination of flood and furrow irrigation. in case of cotton, irrigation can be provided to alternate rows, by skipping a row to save water usage. this has the potential to save around 35 % of irrigation water in comparison to the conventional furrow method in sandy loam soil. paired row technique : paired row technique is an extension of alternate irrigation. it is a method in which additional crop rows are added on both sides of the furrow, besides increasing the ridge spacing, thereby allowing one furrow to irrigate two paired rows. the paired row system of planting cotton crop can save around 30 % of irrigation water with no reduction in the yield as compared to the conventional furrow