##llworms, which are exposed to sunlight and predation by birds. enrichment of compost to fight soil borne plant diseases : when compost is enriched by mixing and growing natural antagonistic fungi ( triochoderma ) and applied as a top dressing at the base of the plants, the practice helps in effective deployment of biocontrol fungus to control wilts and other soil borne diseases, apart from promoting plant growth. trap, border and inter crops : trap and border crops like marigold, castor, maize, sorghum and pigeon pea are grown in cotton fields to serve as trap crops for insects ( mostly bollworms ) and to increase the in - field and border diversity to serve as barrier or guard crop for reducing pest dispersal and in some cases to serve as food resources for enhanced multiplication of beneficial insects. green gram, as an intercrop, not only brings in additional income, but also helps in in - situ conservation of soil moisture and promotes the development of natural enemies of pests thereby reducing the pest incidence on cotton. helicoverpa infestation in cotton leaves © thirsty crop / wwf - india marigold on field bunds can attract helicoverpa bollworm and castor can attract tobacco caterpillar. pest monitoring at weekly intervals can help the farmers identify eggs layed by these insects that are collected and destroyed. tobacco caterpillar is generally found in groups during the first 5 days after hatching, under infested leaf surfaces, which then show up as papery - white patches due to larval scrapping of leaves and these can be spotted from a distance, manually picked and destroyed. marigold, castor, bhindi, sunflower should be sown as trap crops and monitored for pest incidence. pheromone traps : female insects release a kind of scent to attract male insects for mating. male insects get attracted to this smell and wander to the source of the smell. this chemical attraction is species specific. synthetic insect specific pheromones are available as lures for deployment in suitable dispensers housed in traps designed for maximum catching efficiency of attracted adult males ( moths ). the whole apparatus is deployed in the field tied to a wooden stake one foot above the crop canopy. the pheromone trap serves the purpose of tracking the onset of pest activity in the field. trapped insects during the night are counted the next day and removed after enumeration. based on the intensity of pest infestation, control measures are adopted. separate ph