the first picking. the damaged bolls should not be picked during normal pickings for seed purposes. cotton should be clean, with a minimum amount of material such as leaves and plant parts. this reduces the possibility of mechanical damage from excessive machining of the fibre during ginning. moist cotton should not be picked or stored in any way. at a moisture content of twelve per cent, or more, heating may occur and damage the seed and fibre. further, damp cotton requires more processing in the gin. the picked cotton, when it is completely dry, should be stored in a dry place and should be covered if not ginned immediately. 6. 1. 2 : using of cotton picking aprons : wwf - india along with its implementing partner krishi vigyan kendra ( kvk ) is introducing cotton picking aprons for women pickers. the apron has got the following characteristics : cotton picking apron © thirsty crop / wwf - india it is made up of cotton cloth with a polyester sac at the back with a storage capacity of 7 - 9 kgs and with foam belts on the shoulders. it is easy for any ordinary woman with minimum knowledge of sewing to tailor the sack and therefore has a higher chance of uptake. the sack with half inch foam belts, resting on two shoulders, reduces the stress of carrying the weight of picked cotton, making it easier for women to pick cotton. 7. 0 crop residue management the cotton stalks after harvest are largely wasted ( either burnt ) or inefficiently used ( as firewood ). the stalk can either be used as briquette ( densified and energized ) or as organic manure after composting. cotton stubbles contain more than 1. 11 % of nitrogen, 0. 1 % of phosphorous, and 3. 98 % potash. this means that the grown crop can supplement 1. 5 tons of carbon, 20 - 25 kgs of nitrogen, 72 kgs of potash from the cotton stubbles collected from one hectare of cotton cultivated area. the stubbles can be chopped through a chipper to chips or powder. the chips can be used as a feeding material for composting process, or in vermicompost preparation and other compost pits. commercial microbial cultures can be used on the chips / powder of stubbles to hasten the decomposition process. otherwise, with the help of a rotavator, a tractor driven machine, the stubbles / stalk can be chopped in the field and residues can be incorporated