and friable for adequate air circulation. earthworms, insects, microorganisms and plant roots help in loosening the soil and facilitate good aeration. soil moisture : for the soil to be healthy, it should have good water holding capacity. for the rainwater to percolate into the soil without wastage through run off, the soil should be loose and friable. in addition to the soil microbial organisms, organic matter content helps in holding water. soil resilience : the ability of the soil to withstand various natural processes and management interventions and still be amenable for sustainable crop production is known as its resilience. soil needs to be protected from wind and water erosion. management cotton is generally prone to secondary nutrient deficiency particularly mg. practices that help build up the soil organic matter and microbial activity are important to safe guard the productivity of soils. ensuring proper land use and land cover through appropriate measures such as mulching, cover cropping and crop residue recycling improve its regenerative capacity. 3. 3 identification of plant nutrient deficiency symptoms all nutrients play an important role in the metabolic activities of a plant. a nutrient higher in quantities cannot replace the role of another deficient nutrient. plants express deficiency of a nutrient through symptoms on their leaves, stems and in their growth. some nutrients are highly mobile, some less mobile while some immobile in the plant system after uptake by the plant through its roots from the soil. highly mobile nutrients include nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium, magnesium and chloride. when the soil becomes deficient of these nutrients, the deficiency symptoms first appear on the lower / older leaves of the plant as these nutrients get translocated to the younger leaves / apical growth because of their mobility in the plant system. immobile nutrients are iron, boron, copper and calcium. when the soil is deficient in these nutrients, they cannot move towards apical parts of the plants as they are immobile, the deficiency symptoms appear first on the apical parts of the plant ( upper / younger leaves ). nutrients with limited mobility include : zinc, sulphur, manganese and molybdenum n deficiency : early season deficiency results in the plant with pale green yellowish leaves and stunted growth and late season deficiency leads to reduced boll retention. p deficiency : reflected in the lower leaves, plants are stunted and have dark green leaves, sometimes impart a purplish yellow color to the leaf. k deficiency : reflected in the lower leaves, occurs as interveinal chlor