on bird perches. ideally, four to five bird perches should be arranged one ft above the crop. © thirsty crop / wwf - india botanical extractions like neem seed kernel extract, vitex decoction, tobacco decoction and neem oil are used for pest control. through weekly monitoring, the diversity and intensity of the insects can be understood. at times, when there are no beneficial insects in the field and when the conditions are not favourable for them, the pest intensity will be higher. under favourable conditions sucking pests spread across the entire field in a short time. when the farmer feels the pest situation is out of control, he should prepare the extracts from the available trees in the village. neem seed oil extraction when adult pests are attracted to light or trapped in pheromone traps, neem sprays and concoctions prepared from five leaves should be sprayed to avoid egg laying by bollworms. these sprays are intended to bring back the natural balance of pests and beneficial insects, but not as an alternative to chemical sprays. based on the diversity and intensity of pests, extracts should be sprayed to bring back the natural balance. bio pesticides are also recommended for controlling bollworms. 6. 0 harvest and storage better management practices also emphasize safe and clean picking and storage practices to promote clean cotton for better prices and markets. 6. 1 picking of cotton the time of picking is an important aspect for maintaining seed quality. picking should only commence when the cotton is fully mature, i. e., when the bolls begin to open. several pickings may be necessary since bolls ripen every two to three months. early cotton picking gives slightly better seeds for germination. in addition, the planting seed is best gathered at the peak of the harvest. the cotton picked from late - formed bolls ( last pickings ) should not be kept for seeds. 6. 1. 1 precautions to be taken in picking : picking should be started when bolls are fully mature. picking should not be done while the bolls are wet from dew or rain. bolls spoiled by rains, or damaged by insects, or otherwise damaged, should be picked separately and discarded. such bolls can be picked 10 to 15 days ahead of the first picking. the damaged bolls should not be picked during normal pickings for seed purposes. cotton should be clean, with a minimum amount of material such as leaves and plant parts. this reduces the possibility of mechanical damage from excessive machining of