: social responsibility, environmental integrity and economic viability by binding together, the financial requirements for agriculture, such as high yield with environmental and social concerns, such as water and pesticide use. these practices allow diverse actors such as farmers, companies, government agencies, ngos to optimize resource use efficiency, create marketable products, reduce waste, assure market access and reduce the risk of adverse relations with local stakeholders. better management practices, technically speaking, are more environment friendly, and promote the use of local resources, and improve the input use efficiency. the practices, apart from improved agronomic practices, can be broadly categorized into five broad areas, namely : soil fertility management water management pest and disease management proper harvesting and storage crop residue management 3. 0 soil management 3. 1 soil nutrition most of the cotton growing tracts in the country are characterized by low to medium levels of available nitrogen ( n ) and phosphorous ( p ) and medium to high levels of available potassium ( k ). organic matter content varies between 0. 3 0. 56 %. needless to say, the fertility index of cotton growing soils is not very encouraging. furthermore, the extraction of nutrients is enormous as cotton is a deep rooted crop. again the nutrient uptake varies with the soil type. cotton is generally grown in vertisols of varying depth ( shallow, medium deep and deep soil ) in the rainfed regions of the central zone. more than 67 % of the cotton growing areas fall under shallow and medium deep soil. the nutrient uptake of cotton in different soil types is given below : ( source : pundarikakshudu et al 1992 ) it is therefore important to replenish the soil nutrients through balanced fertilization for long term sustainability. in order to enhance the nutrient use efficiency it is important that the nutrients are applied at the right times, in right quantities and using appropriate methods. ( source : cicr & kvk, jalna ) the recommended doses for a given area and under different farming systems have to be ascertained from the local agricultural research stations. 3. 2 soil characteristics apart from the nutritional capacity of the soil, there are other aspects which need serious attention : soil respiration : for the soil to be healthy, air is necessary. soil should be loose and friable for adequate air circulation. earthworms, insects, microorganisms and plant roots help in loosening the soil and facilitate good aeration. soil moisture : for the soil to be healthy, it should have good water holding capacity