##e trap serves the purpose of tracking the onset of pest activity in the field. trapped insects during the night are counted the next day and removed after enumeration. based on the intensity of pest infestation, control measures are adopted. separate pheromone traps are available for helicoverpa, tobacco caterpillar and pink bollworm. the farmer, based on his experiences of pest infestation, can opt for specific pheromone traps for estimating the intensity of the pest attack. yellow color trap color traps : some sucking insect pests get attracted to specific colours. colored boards / sheets / round tins should be arranged one foot above the crop by applying castor oil on each surface and tied to a stake. yellow colour bait trap works for trapping whiteflies while white colour boards works for jassids. the insects attracted to the colour boards get stuck to the sticky traps and can be checked for the © thirsty crop / wwf - india intensity of the infestation in the field. periodically the surfaces need to be cleaned and castor oil needs to be applied again. in one acre, 2 - 3 yellow sticky traps could serve the purpose of monitoring. © thirsty crop / wwf - india light trap light traps : many insects get attracted to light. moths, butterflies, adult sucking pests get attracted to light or flame. the light trap idea is based on this behavior. an electric bulb of 100 - 150 watts along with a water trough below that at one feet distance should be arranged near the electricity source. insects that get attracted to the light operated during night time fall in the water and get killed when few drops of kerosene / soap powder is added to water. pests are observed flying in the field in the evening hours between 7 - 9 pm. switching off the light beyond this time will not affect beneficial insects. bird perches : in nature, many birds feed on insect larvae. erecting t - shaped wooden poles in the field ( 10 / acre ) can serve as a perch for birds. these bird landings in the field promote natural pest control. results are also observed by pouring water in broken mud pots. some farmers spread rice mixed with turmeric in the field to attract birds. shrikes, mynas and baya weaver birds land on bird perches. ideally, four to five bird perches should be arranged one ft above the crop. © thirsty crop / wwf - india botanical extractions like neem seed kernel extract, vitex decoction, tobacco decoction and nee