promoting substances. farmers are aware on the use of vermicompost. the project supports the farmers to produce vermicompost by constructing simple, low cost vermicompost beds. cement rings ( 3 - 4 feet diameter ) are prepared at the village level as a group activity, which reduces the cost of construction. these cement rings are then used in constructing the compost beds. farmers are encouraged to use 2 - 3 quintals of vermicompost per acre, as per the availability. © thirsty crop / wwf - india cattle penning farm yard manure application © thirsty crop / wwf - india application of amurtha jalam © thirsty crop / wwf - india sheep penning, cattle penning and poultry manure : farmers are encouraged to use sheep penning and poultry manure. sheep penning and poultry manure are used in the cotton fields, where tank silt can not be applied. this is suggested to reduce the cost of cultivation and to use resources efficiently. fym application : farm yard manure ( fym ) is generally applied in cotton fields. farmers understand the importance of fym application and feel the need for it ; therefore additional efforts are not required to motivate them. however, there is a greater need to motivate the farmers to change the technique of fym preparation, as the process is prone to nutrient loss in conventional methods. fym should not be opened to the sun and should be protected from rain, if possible. occasional stirring or agitation can provide good aeration during decomposition. amrutha jalam : ' amrutham ' literally means elixir. amrutha jalam works as an elixir to the soil, improving its productivity. amrutha jalam is prepared with cow dung ( approx 5 kg. ), cow urine ( approx. 15 l ), ghee ( 250 g ), jaggery ( 2 kg ), which is diluted in 200 l of water. this mixture is allowed to putrefy for 7 days in a drum or a cement tank. this solution can then be applied to one acre land as a top dressing to the soil at the base of the plant either manually or with the help of a spray tank after removing the nozzle or along with irrigation water. this practice helps in building up of favourable microbial activity and other soil organisms, apart from providing some amount of moisture and nutrients during dry spells. 4. 0 water management bmps on water management are developed to improve the water use efficiency in irrigated