2010 manual ind better management practices for cotton cultivation a guide on sustainable cotton production for field & agricultural extension workers wwf manual on better management practices for cotton cultivation conceived and contributed by : murli dhar p. vamshi krishna sumit roy support from : dr. y. g. prasad, central research institute for dryland agriculture ( icar ), hyderabad dr. k. v. rao, central research institute for dryland agriculture ( icar ), hyderabad modern architects for rural india, warrangal, andhra pradesh krishi vigyan kendra, jalna, maharashtra edited by : bhavna prasad malika gupta shaila sam designed by : mallika das published 2010 © 2010, wwf - india, new delhi the manual is a part of the project ' cotton in india - challenges and opportunities to implement better cotton ' supported by wwf - sweden. through this initiative wwf - india has attempted to guide the field worker and agricultural extension staff to execute better management practices in cotton at field level. manual on better management practices for cotton cultivation a guide on sustainable cotton production for field & agricultural extension workers contents 1. 0 introduction 2. 0 defining better management practices 3. 0 soil management 4. 0 water management 5. 0 pest and disease management 6. 0 harvest and storage 7. 0 crop residue management 8. 0 economics and profitability 9. 0 monitoring methodology for assessing the performance of bmp 1. 0 introduction cotton is one of the most important fiber ' s and cash crop ' s of india and plays a dominant role in the industrial and agricultural economy of the country. india has emerged as the second largest producer of cotton in the world and occupies the first position in terms of total area under crop production at over 9. 44 million hectares. however, the productivity level is still below the world average. efforts are in place to increase the current productivity to bring it closer to the world average. in addition to meeting the cotton consumption demands by domestic textile industry, india has surplus cotton available for exports. the productivity level of cotton in india varies from zone to zone ( fig. 1 ). in india, there are nine major cotton growing states which fall under three zones viz. the north zone ( punjab, haryana and rajasthan ), the central zone ( maharashtra, madhya pradesh and gujarat ), and the southern zone ( andhra pradesh, karnataka and tamil nadu ). nearly 65 per cent of the cotton crop is cultivated under rain fed conditions in the country. the crop is generally grown in medium to deep black clayey soil, but is also grown