and the southern zone ( andhra pradesh, karnataka and tamil nadu ). nearly 65 per cent of the cotton crop is cultivated under rain fed conditions in the country. the crop is generally grown in medium to deep black clayey soil, but is also grown in sandy and sandy loam soil through supplemental irrigation by farmers. cotton is best grown in soils with an excellent water holding capacity. aeration and good drainage are equally important as the crop cannot withstand excessive moisture and water logging. the major soil types suitable for cotton cultivation are alluvial, clayey and red sandy loam. cotton is grown both under irrigated and rain fed conditions. being a cash crop, cotton is known for its intensive cultivation. some production practices like wide plant to plant and row to row spacing and crop traits such as indeterminate growth habit, long duration, render the crop susceptible to a multitude of pests and diseases at all stages of growth. these factors are also responsible for high input use in terms of nutrients and crop protection chemicals. aggressive production practices by farmers often lead to a very high input use, with little regard to matching returns. the excessive use of inputs, not only escalates the cost of cultivation but also decreases the profitability. it also results in pest resurgence, health and environmental hazards. needless to say, excessive use of inputs is laying enormous pressure on land and water. in order to address these issues, wwf - india has developed the concept of operationalizing better management practices ( bmps ) for cotton cultivation. bmps help balance inputs with increased farm yields. this manual has been developed in order to guide the extension worker at the field level to execute better management practices in cotton growing areas. the manual has emerged from the field experiences and results obtained by wwf - india, thirsty crop team. the manual outlines the importance of environmentally sustainable cotton production systems and provides information on the methodology and technology pertaining to cleaner and more profitable cotton cultivation. 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 546 466 614 nearly 65 per cent of the cotton crop is cultivated under rainfed conditions in the country figure 1 varied productivity level of cotton in india ( zone to zone ) 2. 0 defining better management practices better management practices ( bmps ) are agricultural practices which optimize the three pillars of sustainability : social responsibility, environmental integrity and economic viability by binding together, the financial requirements for agriculture, such as high yield with environmental and social concerns, such as water and pesticide use. these practices allow diverse actors such as farmers, companies, government