indoama urea beta harvest indorama neurbatep mega harvest indorama npk indorama essential materials. better lives. cotton nigeria ' s fiber of excellence ; sustainably grown for textile brilliance gro getit on google play download onthe app store cotton was one of the main sources of foreign exchange in nigeria prior to oil boom. nigeria produces about 600, 000 metric tons of cotton with production concentrating around the savannah belts of nigeria. the cotton - producing areas in nigeria are the northwest cotton zone which comprises, katsina ; jigawa ; sokoto ; kebbi and zamfara states which comprises of adamawa ; taraba ; yobe, maiduguri, bauchi and gombe states and produces 30 to 35 % of cotton in nigeria _ the annual business revenue stimulated by cotton in nigerian economy has an excess of one hundred billion naira and contributed over one million jobs _ this makes cotton one of the major valueadded crops in nigeria fmafs indo rama for more information ; fertsales @ ng indorama. com + 2349139364345 cotton crop land preparation and soil requirement start cotton is adapted to a wide range of soil types ( sandy loam to clay loam ) but prefers well - drained fertile soil with ph between 6. 0 - 6. 5. the land selected should be void of debris or stubbles from previous crops the land should be ploughed and harrowed into a fine tilth. ridging is done at the spacing of 75 cm. where the land is sloppy ; ridge across the slope to prevent erosion. pre - planting herbicide ( glyphosate ) at the rate of 2l / ha should be sprayed two weeks to planting. seed rate and time of sowing obtain seed from reputable licensed seed companies or research institutes _ the seed rate of 15 kglha is recommended. seed should be treated using a seed dressing chemical ( such as 20 % metalayxl 20 % imidacloprid at rate of 10 g per 4 kg of the seeds ). the seeds are sown at the rate of 5 seeds per hole at a depth of about 3 - 5cm then thinned to 2 plants per hole at 3 weeks after planting. plants should be 45 cm apart on the ridge timely sowing reduces the incidence of insects and diseases late sowing as practiced by most cotton farmers may result to reduced cotton yield by about 46 % - all missing stands should be reseeded week after sowing. fertilizer management with 4