of seedling growth causes necrotic spots on leaves and transmit virus and cotton aphid ( aphis gossypii ) spray cyhalothrin 2. 5 % ec 12oml / lt or foliar spray with imidacloprid 2oog / l sl or fipronil cotton boll worms ( helicoverpa armiger ) spray cyhalothrin 2. 5 % ec 1ooomls per ha or cypermethrin 1o % ec or profenos 40 % cypermethrin 4 % e premature shedding of squares and bolls fibres damage cotton 2 leaves rolled in the form of trumpets marginal portion of leaves eaten away plants defoliated in severe attack collection and destruction of sheded plant parts hand picking and destruction of grown up caterpillars spray chlorpyriphos 20 % ec leaf roller ( sylepta derogata ) no nutrient deficiency symptoms healthy cotton reference pale yellow green colour of leaves in older leaves forced early flowering premature drying and shedding of older leaves reduced boll retention and yield green foliage improved vigor stimulates vegetative growth increase yield nitrogen earlier boll set and maturity improved early root development provide strong stems and leaves improve of cotton yield stunting of plant poor root shoot growth delay in blooming and fruiting and 2 phosphorus yellowing of tips or margin of the leaves extending to the center of leaf base which becomes necrotic ( dead spots ) stunted growth reduced disease resistance increase increase disease resistance increased fibre maturity and length reduced premature senescence ' yield potassium indorama granular urea indorama neem coated urea indorama npk uniform granule size. low moisture, anticaking properties, low biuret content & free flowing : higher crushing strength ; which prevents caking. enhances the nitrogen use efficiency and crop remain indorama green for longer time. it increases crop productivity neurbatep protect crop from pest and diseases _ indorama npk maintains quality and have a perfect balance of indorama nitrogen, phosphorus _ and potassium. nitrogen is needed for vegetative growth. phosphorus is needed to produce strong roots and shoots - potassium is needed to produce quality fruit and flowers also increases resistance to diseases. indoama urea beta harvest standards organization of nigeria son certified calcium from limestone granules helps in decreasing soil acidity. s. no diseases damage damage control control reference deformation of the plant alterneria leaf blight ( alternaria macrospora ) the affected leaves become brittle and fall off rot ; wil