1. 5 llha at 5 weeks after planting depending on the intensity of weeds use of tolerantlresistant varieties harvesting and crop storage harvesting is done when there are reasonable number of split bolls ( 50 % ). seed cotton is to be picked 2 or more times starting with the clean ones first during the cooler part of the day. picking should be done at regular intervals to prevent rain damage and staining which can also lower seed cotton grade timely picking is advised to avoid falling of seed cotton on the ground which leads to deterioration of quality. picked seed - cotton should be kept well to avoid contamination with dirt and other foreign matters such as dry leaf trash. sort out the inferior from good quality seed cotton _ clean storage areas thoroughly before picking and storing produce. picked seed - cotton should be stored in a well - ventilated, cool, shady and clean store or sterilized jute bags. s. no diseases damage control reference alterneria leaf blight ( alternaria macrospora ) remove and destroy the infected plant residues avoid seeds from infected crop application of a mancozeb 80 % wp foliar fungicide before the cotton is infected the affected leaves become brittle and fall off rot ; wilting ; mould, spotting ( necrosis ), fruit rots _ deformation of the plant infection spreads to inner tissues and rotting of seeds and lint occur reduces yield the bolls never burst open and fall off prematurely apply the recommended doses of fertilizers spray carbendazim at 2ooglacre or mancozeb at 8ooglacre from 45th and at 15 days interval day boll rot ( fungal complex ) 2 wilting of the cotton leaves death of seedlings the entire root system gets rotten plants dried and the affected plants can be easily pulled out gets treat seeds with imidacloprid 20 % + metalaxyl - m 20 % tebuconazole 2 % ws spot drenching with carbendazim 5o % wp at 1gllit of water, or mancozeb 80 % wp at 1kglha root rot ( rhizoctonia bataticola ) 3 s. no pest damage control reference feeds on cotton sap causes defoliation, severe stunting of seedling growth causes necrotic spots on leaves and transmit virus and cotton aphid ( aphis gossypii ) spray cyhalothrin 2. 5 % ec 12oml / lt or foliar spray with imidacl