yield green foliage improved vigor stimulates vegetative growth increase yield green foliage improved vigor stimulates vegetative growth increase yield 2 phosphorus stunting of plant poor root shoot growth delay in blooming and fruiting and stunting of plant poor root shoot growth delay in blooming and fruiting and earlier boll set and maturity improved early root development provide strong stems and leaves improve of cotton yield earlier boll set and maturity improved early root development provide strong stems and leaves improve of cotton yield potassium yellowing of tips or margin of the leaves extending to the center of leaf base which becomes necrotic ( dead spots ) stunted growth reduced disease resistance yellowing of tips or margin of the leaves extending to the center of leaf base which becomes necrotic ( dead spots ) stunted growth reduced disease resistance increase increase disease resistance increased fibre maturity and length reduced premature senescence ' yield increase increase disease resistance increased fibre maturity and length reduced premature senescence ' yield indorama granular urea indorama granular urea indorama granular urea indorama neem coated urea indorama neem coated urea indorama npk indorama npk indoama urea beta harvest standards organization of nigeria son certified uniform granule size. low moisture, anticaking properties, low biuret content & free flowing : higher crushing strength ; which prevents caking. uniform granule size. low moisture, anticaking properties, low biuret content & free flowing : higher crushing strength ; which prevents caking. enhances the nitrogen use efficiency and crop remain indorama green for longer time. it increases crop productivity neurbatep protect crop from pest and diseases _ enhances the nitrogen use efficiency and crop remain indorama green for longer time. it increases crop productivity neurbatep protect crop from pest and diseases _ indorama npk maintains quality and have a perfect balance of indorama nitrogen, phosphorus _ and potassium. nitrogen is needed for vegetative growth. phosphorus is needed to produce strong roots and shoots - potassium is needed to produce quality fruit and flowers also increases resistance to diseases. calcium from limestone granules helps in decreasing soil acidity.