icar - cicr, nagpur is testing a defoliant chemical formulation over two seasons. among the defoliants tested in the north zone, application at 7 days interval resulted in highest number of fully opened bolls per plant ( 28. 0 ), boll opening percentage ( 97. 3 % ) and defoliation percentage ( 92. 6 % ) ( fig 2 ). fig. 2 : testing of defoliants in cotton cotton association of india 20 th february, 2024 5 for machine harvesting at coimbatore centre, icar - cicr defoliant was sprayed when the crop was 140 days old and desired level of boll opening and defoliation was achieved, outperforming the commercially available salts. however, apart from on - going research, concerted efforts are needed to rope in agro - chemical input firms for registering proven and effective defoliant chemical ( s ) for commercial use on cotton in the country at the earliest to facilitate mechanical cotton picking. plant, soil and environmental ( temperature and humidity ) conditions also play a critical role in the effectiveness of defoliation and resultant level of trash content in mechanically harvested cotton. genotypes with less leaf biomass, avoiding excessive plant stress, prevalence of night temperatures above 20 o c are some critical factors. performance of the defoliant will be more evident when used under ideal environmental conditions. it is high time that such cotton growing locations of sizeable area are identified in different states and the complete package comprising of mechanical sowing at high density, nutrient management ( need based n application ), crop growth regulation with pgr, and defoliant application in right conditions is done for mechanical harvesting of cotton with commercially available two row spindle type pickers and picked cotton is tested for trash content before and after pre - cleaning and postcleaning at the ginnery. such effective defoliants need to be registered for commercial use and their availability ensured for realising the potential. performance of spindle type picker in cotton variety suraksha at coimbatore regional station of icarcicr, 150 days old cotton variety suraksha under hdps system ( 90 x 10 cm spacing ) in one - hectare was harvested using shaktiman cotton master 1437 spindle type two row picker ( fig 3 ). the field capacity of the picker was one acre per hour. the total trash content in the harvested kapas ranged from 8. 96 - 12. 44 % on seed cotton basis ( fig 4 ). on seed