picker ( fig 3 ). the field capacity of the picker was one acre per hour. the total trash content in the harvested kapas ranged from 8. 96 - 12. 44 % on seed cotton basis ( fig 4 ). on seed cotton basis, dried / green leaves, bracts / burrs and sticks contributed 5 %, 2. 9 % and 0. 6 % of mean trash content, respectively. trash content in machine picked cotton ginning factories are most crucial for success or otherwise of machine picked cotton in india because it is here that most trash of the machine fig. 3 : icar - cicr cotton variety suraksha being harvested using two row spindle type cotton picker fig 4 : trash constituents in machine picked picked cotton will be eliminated. thousand ( 869 ) ginning factories of india have been modernised with pre - cleaner and post - cleaner under technology mission of cotton ( mini mission iv ). additional pre and post - cleaners specific for machine picked cotton will have to be installed in the ginning factories with support under a phase ii of tmc. testing equipment ( hvi ) installed at the ginning factories will further establish the fibre quality of machine picked cotton. these changes will eventually pave way for lint - based marketing of quality cotton and result in a win - win situation for producers and downstream players. conclusion scarcity of labour and therefore, the higher cost of picking seed cotton and consequent higher cost of cultivation will eventually pave the way for mechanical harvesting of cotton in india. cotton is grown in all categories of land holdings and under all sources of power. therefore, cotton harvesters will need to come in all shapes and sizes, harnessing the available power to satiate the demands of indian cotton. many of the constraints and bottlenecks faced while popularising the earlier cotton pickers have now been adequately addressed to pave the way for wider adaptability of the picker. with the advent of new genotypes, it may be possible to introduce mechanical cotton pickers successfully. the trash content in the machine picked cotton has significantly reduced from earlier 20 % to 10 - 12 % and the efficiency of picking has gone up from 85 to 95 %. 6 20 th february, 2024 cotton statistics & news the pathway for mechanication of cotton harvesting entails meeting three essential requirements now : scaling up of hdps, a global best practice, in suitable growing environments with amenable early maturing compact genotypes grown at prescribed spacing and canopy management with use of pg