weekly publication of 19 estd cotton association of india edited & published by amar singh 2023 - 24 no. 47 20 th february, 2024 published every tuesday cotton exchange building, 2nd floor, cotton green, mumbai - 400 033 telephone : 8657442944 / 45 / 46 / 47 / 48 email : cai @ caionline. in www. caionline. in challenges and pathways in making mechanical harvesting of cotton a reality dr. y. g. prasad is currently working as director, icar - cicr, nagpur. er. gautam majumdar is an agricultural engineer by profession. he earned his phd in entomology from the icar - indian agricultural research institute, new delhi. he has worked extensively on microbial biopesticides, ipm, bioecology of invasive cotton mealybug and contributed significantly to pest forecast research, pest surveillance, decision support systems, climate resilience and agricultural extension. major types of mechanisms involved in harvesting of cotton were suction or mechanical type. mechanical picking mechanisms involved brush type, pin & finger type, spindle type, beater type, auger type, bristle type, tooth picking and saw type. spindle type mechanism was found to be successful in picking seed cotton in europe and american countries. presently, spindle type cotton mechanism is mostly used by mechanical cotton pickers across most cotton producing countries. however, another system known as cotton stripping became popular wherever ultra narrow row cotton cultivation is practiced. stripper type harvesters are positioned as suitable to small holder farms which are dominant across working as a scientist ( farm machinery & power ) at the icar - cicr, nagpur for more than thirty years. he has been working for cotton picking mechanisation for the past 10 years. asia and countries like argentina. the past two decades have seen efforts being made by public as well as private establishments to popularise mechanised cotton picking in india. although, significant improvements have been made and many of the constraints removed over the years, large scale adoption still eludes the cotton ecosystem. this paper presents the evolution of the picker technology development in india and discusses ways to overcome challenges and suggests pathway to be followed to realise this goal. cotton is cultivated in three distinct agroecological regions ( north, central and south ) of the country. approximately 65 percent of india ' s cotton is produced on dry land and 35 percent on irrigated land. small holdings, complex land tenure arrangement and excessive 2 20 th february, 202