plan to address the challenges in promoting mechanical harvesting with the participation of public sector researchers from icar - cicr, icar - ciae, icar - circot ; seed industry ( rasi seeds ) ; agro - chemical majors : bayer crop science ( defoliants ) ; machinery industry : john deere, shaktiman industries ( cotton pickers ), robotic harvester start - ups ( grobomac ) ; bajaj steel ( pre - cleaning machinery ). the following points emerged from the panel discussion on mechanical harvesting of cotton in india : cotton hybrids / varieties amenable for mechanisation as well as high density planting system ( hdps ) and early bursting of bolls with synchronised boll opening should be developed using genetic engineering on ppp basis involving icar - cicr and seed producing companies. non - availability of suitable plant growth regulators and defoliants was a major constraint in mechanisation. efforts should to be made to develop it indigenously in collaboration with private industry. cotton association of india 20 th february, 2024 3 pneumatic planters work well in sandy loam soils prevalent in northern india, however, the same do not perform well in heavy black soils mostly prevalent in central and southern india. this is mainly because of the stickiness of the black soil, especially during rainfall. it was thus necessary to develop / refine the existing planters for working on wet soils. cicr and ciae would work together in tandem with the stakeholder to find out the solution for the same. strengthen extension services to educate the farmers to adopt complete mechanisation in cotton. technology / machinery developed for cleaning and ginning of mechanically harvested cotton to be adopted and further refined and optimised to bring down the trash content to the acceptable level of 4 - 5 %. to promote mechanical harvesting, at least one ginnery in each cotton growing state with additional machinery required for processing mechanically harvested cotton should be established with financial assistance from technology mission on cotton ( phase ii ). icar - cicr, circot, ciae and other institutes to continue the on - going research in cotton mechanisation. consequently, a series of measures were initiated by icar - cicr along with the stakeholders to address the identified constraints and pave the way for mechanical harvesting of cotton in india. the following sections illustrate the measures taken in this direction. high density planting system ( hdps ) icar - central institute for cotton research has developed, standardised and conducted large scale demonstrations