##ological regions ( north, central and south ) of the country. approximately 65 percent of india ' s cotton is produced on dry land and 35 percent on irrigated land. small holdings, complex land tenure arrangement and excessive 2 20 th february, 2024 cotton statistics & news farm fragmentation, further limit the scope for sophisticated farm power system more suited to large land holdings of north zones. in small and marginal farms, except for tillage, other operations such as sowing, weeding, cotton picking harvesting and stalk uprooting are normally performed using animate sources of power. though, india has an abundant labour force in agriculture, non - availability of manpower during peak crop season is a growing problem. cotton harvesting in india is done manually whether it is rainfed or irrigated and it is a highly labor - intensive operation. manual picking is not only tedious but amounts to more than 35 % of the labour used in cotton cultivation. due to nonavailability of labor in time, cotton picking gets delayed causing around 15 per cent field loss and affecting the overall quality of cotton lint. the change in weather forces the farmers to harvest cotton quickly and non - availability of labour and less available time makes it an expensive and complex process. adopting mechanical cotton picking, therefore, was felt necessary as early as 1972, when efforts were made by ccshau, hissar, to develop a knapsack vacuum cotton picker. a laboratory model of blower fan for creating vacuum in the picking zone for the development of a pneumatic cotton picker was fabricated. however, further work could not be taken up as the model ended up picking up a lot of trash. muthamiselvan et al. ( 2007 ) developed a knapsack cotton picker, however, the rate of work was found dismally low. it was, therefore, evident that any system that picked one boll at a time was more labour intensive than a human picker. this is the reason the hand - held pickers which were introduced in the indian market at a later date, did not gain popularity. efforts to introduce spindle type cotton picker in india in 2003 - 04, a study was conducted on the performance of an imported john deere 9935 two - row self - propelled cotton picker at different locations in india under natp project on ' adoption and refinement of a cotton picker and cleaning system '. the performance of the cotton picker was evaluated at pau ludhiana and cicr, nagpur. tests