were evaluated for compactness during kharif 2022. the varieties were planted at 90 x 10cm spacing and hybrids were planted at 90 x 15 cm spacing. among varieties, nano produced the highest seed cotton yield with mepiquat chloride application and the height of lower most boll was 18 cm from ground surface. among hybrids, rch 608 bg ii recorded the highest seed cotton yield. however, rch 578 bg ii recorded better ground clearance for machine picking as the height of lower most boll was 23cm. under the special cotton project, ' targeting technology to agro - ecological zone large scale demonstrations of 14 hdps compact genotypes in 8 states covering 52 districts in an area of 3000 ha has been conducted ( fig 1b ) '. plant growth regulator ( pgr ) pgr is used in cotton to regulate vegetative growth of the plant, to reduce plant height and ensure better harvest index. optimum use of nitrogen coupled with use of pgr will facilitate machine picking. several pgrs such as livosin, cycocel, etc. are available in the market. it can be used once or multiple application during the flowering period to reduce plant height and improve yield through higher fruit retention. while reduction in growth following cycocel treatments was observed by all workers, improvement in yield also was noted by many ( basu et. al. 1979 ). more potent pgrs are likely to be available in future. in a trial of evaluation of defoliants and growth regulators at icar - cicr, subiksha and suraksha among varieties and ch 578 bgii among hybrids outperformed the rest in terms of compactness and height of lowermost boll, with the application of mepiquat chloride growth regulator. defoliation use of defoliant is inevitable for efficient and trash free picking of cotton by mechanical harvester. mechanical picking of cotton with spindle type picker has to be preceded with chemical defoliation of cotton plants since leaves add to the trash content which downgrade the quality of cotton. at present there are no registered defoliants available in india. there is need for a better defoliant to ensure more defoliation prior to machine picking with minimum trash content. icar - cicr, nagpur is testing a defoliant chemical formulation over two seasons. among the defoliants tested in the north zone, application at 7 days interval resulted in highest number of fully opened bolls per plant ( 28.