1. introduction cotton is one of the most important fiber and cash crop of india and plays a dominant role in the industrial and agricultural economy of the country. it provides the basic raw material ( cotton fibre ) to cotton textile industry. cotton in india provides direct livelihood to 6 million farmers and about 40 - 50 million people are employed in cotton trade and its processing. in india, there are ten major cotton growing states which are divided into three zones, viz. north zone, central zone and south zone. north zone consists of punjab, haryana, and rajasthan. central zone includes madhya pradesh, maharashtra and gujarat. south zone comprises andhra pradesh, telangana, karnataka and tamil nadu. besides these ten states, cotton cultivation has gained momentum in the eastern state of orissa. cotton is also cultivated in small areas of non - traditional states such as uttar pradesh, west bengal & tripura. 2. cultivated species there are four cultivated species of cotton viz. gossypium arboreum, g. herbaceum, g. hirsutum and g. barbadense. the first two species are diploid ( 2n = 26 ) and are native to old world. they are also known as asiatic cottons because they are grown in asia. the last two species are tetraploid ( 2n = 52 ) and are also referred to as new world cottons. g. hirsutum is also known as american cotton or upland cotton and g. barbadense as egyptian cotton or sea island cotton or peruvian cotton or tanguish cotton or quality cotton. g. hirsutum is the predominant species which alone contributes about 90 % to the global production. perhaps, india is the only country in the world where all the four cultivated species are grown on commercial scale. 3. major constraints in cotton production nearly 65 percent cotton area is rainfed, mainly in the central and southern states cotton crop is highly prone to pests and diseases. wide fluctuation in cotton prices, inadequate market infrastructure and cotton export policy. 4. area, production & yield of cotton in india area, production & yield of cotton in major states during last 6 years & current year is at annexure i. state wise normal area, production & yield of cotton is at annexure ii. area, production & yield of major cotton growing countries during 2012 - 13 to 2016 - 17 is at annexure iii. 5. seed rate & spacing of cotton * which includes 150 gm of non bt seed * * spacing differ depending on growth habit of particular hybrid