##fsm - cc ) for enhancing production and productivity w. e. f 2014 - 15 in 15 states viz., assam, andhra pradesh, gujarat, haryana, karnataka, madhya pradesh, maharashtra, orissa, punjab, rajasthan, telangana, tamil nadu, tripura, uttar pradesh & west bengal. under this scheme thrust has been given on transfer of technology through frontline demonstrations and training in order to extend benefits to the farmers. from, 2015 - 16, in view of increased devolution to the states on account of implementation of recommendations of 14 th finance commission, nfsm is being implemented on sharing basis between government of india and states on 60 : 40 basis for general category states & 90 : 10 basis for north east & hilly states. however, the central agencies are funded 100 % by goi. pattern of assistance under nfsm - cc - cotton is at annexure - iv. allocation of funds under nfsm - cotton is at annexure - v. iii. cotton development under rashtriya krishi vikasyojana ( rkvy ) there is no earmarked allocation of funds for cotton under rkvy. however, the states can undertake cotton programme under rkvy with the approval of state level sanctioning committee ( slsc ) under the chairmanship of chief secretary of the state. 16. strategy for management of incidence of whitefly on cotton during 2016 - 17 a meeting was held on 8. 2. 2016 at central institute for cotton research, regional centre, sirsa ( haryana ). the meeting was attended by officials of the ministry of agriculture & farmers welfare, government of india, scientists of indian council of agricultural research ( icar ) and senior officers of the department of agriculture, punjab, haryana and rajasthan. it reviewed the steps to be taken to save the crop from whitefly infestation. a comprehensive advisory has been sent to these three states comprising of timely sowing, use of recommended seeds, monitoring of insects, insecticides spray schedule etc along with other instructions. icar has recommended insect resistant varieties / hybrids so that farmers can be advised properly in these states. timely advisories are being issued to these states to manage whitefly. a committee has been formed in the ministry to monitor status of whitefly in cotton continuously & to ensure timely & regular dissemination of advisories through electronic, print & mobile platforms to stakeholders. the committee will also undertake need based visit to the infected regions. 17. minimum support price ( msp ) of cotton the msp of cotton during last