yield of major cotton growing countries during 2012 - 13 to 2016 - 17 is at annexure iii. 5. seed rate & spacing of cotton * which includes 150 gm of non bt seed * * spacing differ depending on growth habit of particular hybrid. 6. climate & soil requirement cotton, a semi - xerophyte, is grown in tropical & sub tropical conditions. a minimum temperature of 15 o c is required for better germination at field conditions. the optimum temperature for vegetative growth is 21 - 27 o c & it can tolerate temperature to the extent of 43 o c but temperature below 21 o c is detrimental to the crop. warm days of cool nights with large diurnal variations during the period of fruiting are conducive to good boll & fibre development. cotton is grown on a variety of soils ranging from well drained deep alluvial soils in the north to black clayey soils of varying depth in central region and in black and mixed black and red soils in south zone. cotton is semi - tolerant to salinity and sensitive to water logging and thus prefers well drained soils. 7. crop season the sowing season of cotton varies considerably from tract to tract and is generally early ( april - may ) in northern india and is delayed as we proceed to down south ( monsoon based in southern zone ). cotton is a kharif crop in the major parts of the country viz. punjab, haryana, rajasthan, uttar pradesh, madhya pradesh, gujarat, maharashtra and parts of andhra pradesh & karnataka. in these areas, the irrigated crop is sown from march - may and the rain fed crop in june - july with the commencement of the monsoon. in tamil nadu, the major portion of the irrigated and rain fed crop is planted in september - october, whereas the sowing of the rain fed crop in the southern districts is extended up to november. in parts of karnataka and andhra pradesh, the desi cotton is usually sown in august - september. in addition, summer sowings in tamil nadu are done during february - march. the sowings of cotton in the rice fallows of andhra pradesh and tamil nadu extent from the second half of december to the middle of january. 8. preparation of land the time available for land preparation following the harvest of wheat is limited in the north zone. pre - sowing irrigation is undertaken after the harvest of wheat. the land is worked upon with tractor - drawn implements, then levelled & planked before preparing ridges upon which