for land preparation following the harvest of wheat is limited in the north zone. pre - sowing irrigation is undertaken after the harvest of wheat. the land is worked upon with tractor - drawn implements, then levelled & planked before preparing ridges upon which sowing is done. in central and southern zone of india where cotton is a rainfed crop, deep ploughing recommended to destroy perennial weeds once in 4 years. the field is prepared by repeated harrowing with a blade harrow prior to the onset of pre - monsoon rains. sowing is undertaken on ridges & furrows in drylands for moisture conservation & weed management. 9. method of sowing cotton is sown using tractor or bullock drawn seed drill or by dibbling. hand dibbling of seeds at recommended spacing is commonly practiced in rainfed areas particularly for hybrids. this system ensures proper plant stand, uniform geometry and also saves seeds. this is now main system of sowing of bt. hybrids. cotton cultivation on ridges across the slopes conserves more water, reduces soil erosion and improves yield. 10. irrigation scheduling depending upon the climate & crop - growing period, cotton needs 700 - 1, 200 mm water to meet its maximum water requirement. the water requirement is low during first 60 - 70 days after sowing & highest during flowering & boll development. cotton is commonly flood irrigated although irrigation by furrow or alternate furrow method is more effective and water saving. drip irrigation is becoming popular particularly in the hybrids for central and southern zones. cotton needs to be irrigated at 50 - 70 % depletion of available soil moisture. on sandy loam soils of northern zone 3 - 5 irrigations are commonly given. on red sandy loam soils of tamil nadu with low water retention capacity, 4 - 13 light irrigations may be necessary. 11. fertilizer doses and method of application recommended for cotton crop in different zones 12. inter cultivation & weed control inter - cultivation is done fairly regularly by either a blade harrow with a three tined hoe or a desi plough. in the crop sown by broadcasting, one or two hand hoeing ' s are given to remove weeds, inter - cultivation not only checks the growth of weeds but also leads to better soil aeration and soil moisture conservation. weeds compete with cotton crop for nutrients, light and moisture. cotton is susceptible to weed competition from sowing to about 70 days when the canopy covers the inter - spaces. cotton yields are reduced by 50 to 85 % if weed growth is un