conservation. weeds compete with cotton crop for nutrients, light and moisture. cotton is susceptible to weed competition from sowing to about 70 days when the canopy covers the inter - spaces. cotton yields are reduced by 50 to 85 % if weed growth is unchecked. fluchloralin or pendimethalin @ 1 kg ai / ha. as pre - plant incorporation with one hand weeding and crosswise hoeing has been recommended for satisfactory weed control. deep rooted perennial weeds are removed by summer ploughing. the thinning of the cotton crop is a special feature of the irrigated crop sown on ridges in peninsular india and in parts of southern gujarat. thinning is desirable for maintaining the optimum population of plants to obtain a high yield. during thinning, the vigorous seedlings are retained and weak seedlings and off types are removed. 13. cropping system & intercropping in cotton 14. management of insect pests & diseases 15. schemes for cotton development i. mm - ii of tmc government of india launched a centrally sponsored scheme of technology mission on cotton ( tmc ) during 2000. mini mission - ii ( mm - ii ) of tmc was on cotton development with the aim to increase the production & productivity of cotton. mm - ii of tmc was implemented by the department of agriculture, cooperation & farmers welfare ( dac & fw ) in 13 states viz. andhra pradesh, gujarat, haryana, karnataka, madhya pradesh, maharashtra, orissa, punjab, rajasthan, tamil nadu, uttar pradesh, west bengal and tripura from 2000 - 01 to 2013 - 14. the sharing of funding of the components was 75 : 25 between central and state governments. however, in some of the components implemented by icar / other central agencies, 100 per cent share was borne by the central government. under the scheme, assistance was provided for transfer of technologies through field demonstrations, training of farmers & extension workers as well as supply of critical inputs such as certified seeds, pheromone traps, bio - agents & water saving devices like sprinklers & drip irrigation system, etc. ii. national food security mission - commercial crops ( cotton ) programme : cotton development programme is being implemented under national food security mission - commercial crops ( nfsm - cc ) for enhancing production and productivity w. e. f 2014 - 15 in 15 states viz., assam, andhra pradesh, gujarat, haryana, karnataka, madhya pradesh, maharashtra, orissa, punjab, rajasthan, telangana, tamil