plants die in the centre of infected patch. control : seed treatment with trichoderma viride @ 10. 0 g or p. fluorescens @ 10. 0 g or carbendazim 2. 0 g or thiram 3. 0 g or vitavax 2. 0 g / kg of seed ; soil application of t. viride or p. fluorescens @ 1. 0 kg / acre developed in 100. 0 kg fym or vermicompost along with 20. 0 kg of neem cake. balanced nitrogen application and correcting micronutrient deficiencies. soil drenching at the base of infected plants with copper oxy chloride 3. 0 g / l or carbendazim 1. 0 g / l or benomyl 1. 0 g / l. 7 harvesting : kapas from fully opened bolls should be collected during cooler times of the day. kapas picked should be free from debris like dried leaves, dried bracts etc. kapas from the first and last pickings should not be mixed with middle pickings, which are of better quality. kapas damaged by bollworms should be picked separately. the cleaned kapas is to be graded and stored in heaps or in gunny boras in dry and well ventilated godowns. post - harvest technology : it is essential that proper care is taken at various stages of handling and processing to ensure that the inherent quality of cotton is not adversely affected so as to realize maximum price. watering the kapas before weighment should be avoided. admixtures of different varieties should be avoided. the admixture of the inferior type lowers the quality of the superior type, due to differences in the fiber quality traits. only one variety of cotton should be heaped and packed to maintain the purity and quality of the cotton. for supply of high quality of cotton, proper packing should be done to protect from contamination and dampness. improper drying due to lack of proper yard at village will generally result in to the discoloration of the fibres. even at the market level, the conventional packing of kapas in bales gives rise to problems such as requirement of large space and possible fire hazards. storing in open yards at the market should be avoided. the seeds from insect attacked and immature bolls being more fragile get crushed during ginning resulting in staining of lint by the oil oozing out of the cut - seeds. this oil acts as a medium for growth