chlorpyriphos 500 - 700 ml or thiodicarb 250 - 300 g ) for the control of grown up larvae of spodoptera. window 4 : > 120 das : boll worms & mealy bugs. in case of minimum infestation of mealy bug, uprooting and destroying of infested plants. surrounding weeds especially, parthenium are sprayed with chlorpyriphos and destroyed subsequently. in severe mealy bug infestation drenching the affected stems with malathion @ 2. 0 ml / l or buprofezin @ 2. 0 ml / l or acephate @ 2. 0 g / l along with sticky agents. insecticides like chlorpyriphos, quinalphos, profenophos, carbaryl are used in case of severe economic damage due to mealy bug. need based use of insecticides : spraying of persistent insecticides like thiodicarb 75 wp @ 1. 5 g / l or quinalphos 25 ec @ 2. 5 ml / l or chlorpyriphos 20 ec @ 2. 5 ml / l at 15 days interval. hand picking of surviving bollworm larvae from bt - cotton fields and destruction of residual pupae by deep ploughing immediately after harvest. integrated pest management in cotton : avoid monocroping of cotton. application of chemical fertilizer as supplement to organic or biological fertilizers as per the recommended doses. growing intercrops / strip crops / barrier crops with greengram, blackgram, soybean cowpea, clusterbean, groundnut, foxtail millet and coriander were found better intercrops in increasing the effectiveness of natural enemies like coccinellids, syrphids, chrysopids, spiders, trichogrammids, apantelids etc. growing fodder sorghum or maize as barrier crops and castor as ovipositional trap crop with in the cotton was also found to be more advantageous to manage the pests of cotton. seed treatment with recommended insecticides and fungicides. stem application of monocrotophos at 30 and 45, and imidacloprid at 60 das. monitoring pests by using light, sticky and pheromone traps. the adults monitoring should be supported by egg and larval monitoring following sequential sampling technique at frequent intervals in case of boll worms. 4 bird perches should be arranged @ 10 per acre