in the field. removal and destruction by burning of heavily infested dried / dead cotton plants may be taken up to arrest further spread of the pest incidence. removal and burning of left over cotton stubbles after harvesting. management strategies for pink bollworm : grow early maturing varieties so that the cotton bolls mature before the heavy population of pink bollworm builds up. avoid staggered sowing in an area and take up timely sowings. use of acid delinted seed. adopting efficient and timely agronomic practices such as use of organic manures and recommended doses of ' n ' fertilizers only. keep the crop free from weeds. regular monitoring for pest build up with field scouting and pheromone traps. destroy pink bollworm larvae in rosette flowers and also through periodical removal of dropped squares, dried flowers and pre - matured bolls, to suppress pest population in the initial stage. avoid ratooning and summer cotton. allow cattle, sheep and goats to graze upon immature green bolls and attacked bolls after final picking to prevent carry - over of the pest to the next season. prompt removal and destruction of cotton stubbles to prevent carryover of pest to next season. restrict the movement of cotton seed from other areas / states need based use of insecticides : spraying of persistent insecticides like thiodicarb 75 wp @ 1. 5 g / l or quinalphos 25 ec @ 2. 5 ml / l or chlorpyriphos 20 ec @ 2. 5 ml / l at 15 days interval. 6 management of cotton diseases : bacterial blight : angular leaf spots develop and spread through veins causing vein blight. under severe conditions disease spreads to branches causing black arm. dark green spots develop on bolls which turn black and bolls rot. control : seed treatment with pseudomonas fluorescens @ 10. 0g / kg seed ; spraying copper oxy chloride 3. 0 g / l + streptocycline 100 mg / l starting from 50 days after sowing, 2 - 3 times, at fortnightly intervals. alternaria leaf spot : brown spots with concentric rings develop on leaves, join together and dry ; defoliation occurs. lesions on stem extend and break. helminthosporium leaf spot : light brown spots with ashy centres and red margins cercospora leaf spot : dark brown circular spots with white centres and purple margins develop on leaves. control : for the control of leaf spots