). this method avoids the need for a worker to be on top of the module, but requires covering the figure 13 covering a module by using the builder to pull the cover over the module. the front edge of the cover is attached temporarily to the door as the builder is driven forward. module immediately at the time of building. a covering crew that works independent of the module forming will have to use ladders to place the cover on the top of the larger modules. whichever method is used, avoid walking on the cover after it is spread on top of a module. walking on the cover after installation can cause puddles and water penetration even if the cover is in excellent condition. the cover should be pulled as low as possible on the module on both ends. lower attachment points will help to avoid standing water on the surface and make the cover less susceptible to wind damage or removal. when tightening the cover onto the module, do not tie hard knots in the belt or rope. if using tie - downs on the side of the cover, use module twine, not plastic or baler twine. safety issues for cover crews avoid walking on top of modules. there is a high potential for falls. a better method of applying a cover is to pull the cover on when moving the builder off the module. attach the cover to the rear door of the module builder prior to opening with spring - loaded clips. the clips allow separation of the module cover from the door after it is pulled on completely, avoiding rips. during windy conditions, extra personnel may be required to prevent the cover from being blown off while the cover is being installed. covers should not be installed in winds greater than 20 mph. 14 case ih half - length modules forming and staging the case ih module express cotton picker automatically forms the half - length modules with minimal action on the part of the operator. the operator ' s manual provided by the manufacturer provides guidance on the operation of the module forming system. each operator should read, understand and follow those instructions. unloading the module the primary activity for the operator regarding the module is to decide when to unload it. the instrument console provides an indicator of the size of the module being formed as a percentage of the recommended size. in most cases, the module size will not be 100 percent of recommended size as the picker reaches the turn row. for this reason, the operator must decide to unload a less than full - sized module, or to continue picking and have to deadhead back to the turn row when the module is