percent of recommended size as the picker reaches the turn row. for this reason, the operator must decide to unload a less than full - sized module, or to continue picking and have to deadhead back to the turn row when the module is complete. these decisions can have a significant influence on the operating efficiency of the harvester. for more information on unloading half - size modules, see ' the spindle type cotton harvester ' publication. staging two modules together when the modules are unloaded, typically on a turn - row, they must be staged properly so that they can be picked up by a module truck. while some operators have tried to stage two modules together, this often means driving to the location of a previously unloaded module. staging together is not a requirement, as module truck drivers can pick up a single half - length module, drive to the next module and pick it up as well. these separate actions require a higher level of skill on the part of the module truck driver, and so problems with module damage can occur with inexperienced drivers. the following practices are recommended when unloading and preparing modules for transport : modules should be unloaded from the harvester only in well - drained areas of bare soil, such as turn - rows. avoid placing the module on cotton stalks or grassy areas to minimize 15 case ih half - length modules contamination that might be picked up with the module by the truck. if possible, avoid areas where the module truck cannot access the modules if rain occurs. when unloading modules from the case ih cotton picker, avoid overhead obstructions that might be contacted when the chamber is raised. if cover crews or other workers are in the area, make sure all personnel are in view or someone signals ' all clear ' before unloading the module. this is especially true when staging a second module near another. figure 14 half - length module unloaded too close to another module. notice how the first module is pushed backward at the top. if this occurs before the module is covered, cotton will often fall off the back of the first module. note also the offset between the two modules. this offset will make picking up the two modules together more difficult. if staging modules together for pickup by a module truck, allow 12 - 18 inches between modules. if closer, the angle of the second module coming down the unloading ramp will push the first module out of shape and possibly knock cotton onto the ground. figure 14 shows a module unloaded too close to another module. module staged together must also be closely