seed cotton handling & storage s. w. searcy texas a & m university college station, texas m. h. willcutt mississippi state university mississippi state, mississippi m. j. buschermohle university of tennessee knoxville, tennessee j. d. wanjura usda - ars lubbock, texas a. d. brashears usda - ars ( retired ) lubbock, texas e. m. barnes cotton incorporated cary, north carolina acknowledgements : special thanks to the engineering staff at john deere and case ih for their review comments and input on this document. funding for the production of this document has been provided by cotton incorporated, america ' s cotton producers and importers. disclaimer : the statements, recommendations, and suggestions contained herein are based on experiments and information believed to be reliable only with regard to the products and / or processes involved at the time. no guarantee is made of their accuracy, however, and the information is given without warranty as to its accuracy or reproducibility either expressed or implied, and does not authorize use of the information for purposes of advertisement or product endorsement or certification. likewise, no statement contained herein shall be construed as a permission or recommendation for the use of any information, product, or process that may infringe any existing patents. the use of trade names does not constitute endorsement of any product mentioned, nor is permission granted to use the name cotton incorporated or any of its trademarks in conjunction with the products involved. august 2010 table of contents i table of contents ii introduction machines to form cotton modules at the site of harvest solved the serious problem of harvest being delayed by ginning capacity. a primary advantage of seed cotton modules has been the decoupling of the harvesting and ginning operations. by forming modules that can be stored in the field, harvest can continue when crop condition and weather allow, regardless of the ginning rate. changes in the cotton ginning industry have resulted in modules exposed to inclement weather for longer periods of time. the consolidation of the ginning industry has meant fewer gins with larger service areas, and thus a longer ginning season. protection against weather if not well protected, exposing seed cotton to weather can reduce both producer and ginner profits. rain damages cotton by increasing moisture content, reducing color grade, causing rot and heating in the module. these avoidable quality changes affect the price received by the producer, as well as increasing the cost of ginning because of increased drying energy and reduced