as tie - downs. module tape can be used to hold down covers in high wind regions. the tape should be placed under the module before it is formed, and not through the module. ( photo by alan brashears. ) safety tip don ' t place hands or arms under a raised module builder. this is especially important when placing tarp ties under the module builder prior to building a new module. use a stick or rod to push the strap from one side to the other. figure 20 shows a tie - down under the module. placing module tape ( not baling twine or similar material! ) under the modules is the recommended method. driving a tie - down tape through the module requires a great deal of force and has the potential for both personal injury and placing contaminants into the seed cotton. labels all module covers should have labels that indicate the manufacturer, address and phone number, model name or number, the date the cover was manufactured and other pertinent information. an intact label is critical for proper management of an inventory of module covers, as managers commonly use years in service to determine when a cover should be discarded. never intentionally remove labels from covers. cover life and management module covers have a limited life, and should not be used beyond that period. that life is limited by the damage that occurs to the cover, compromising its ability to resist water penetration. damage can occur from multiple factors, and understanding the impact of the damage sources can aid in the management of an inventory of covers. as was shown earlier, even covers with moderate use can result in seed cotton moisture levels high enough to lose significant value. 24 module wrap protection and handling man - made damage the most severe and obvious damage is often caused by workers handling, installing or removing the covers. proper practices can avoid this damage. following are practices that can minimize man - made damage. refrain from excessive dragging and in particular dragging over areas with sharp and pointed objects. when hauling covers to the field, pay attention to where covers are placed. always place covers on a clean, flat surface, free of sharp pointed objects. refrain from walking on covers, either on a module or on the ground. belts and ropes for tying down covers have a tendency to become abused during use. if the buckle or d rings fail, set the cover aside for repair and use another. tying a hard knot in a belt will usually result in having to cut the belt at the gin, requiring a more expensive repair. after use, fold and roll the covers properly for easy handling and