the rainfall event. ( gc - good cover, pc - poor cover, gs - good shape, ps - poor shape ) gcgs pcgs gcps pcps change in module value $ 100 $ 0 - $ 100 - $ 200 - $ 300 - $ 400 - $ 500 - $ 600 - $ 700 8 what is at risk when seed cotton is stored? same cotton variety ginned prior to the rainfall event. the changes in lint value were due to reduced color grades. figure 8 shows the change in the yellowing portion of the color grade. the amount of yellowing of cotton increases from white ( no or minimum yellowing ) to light spot to spotted and to tinged ( greater yellowing ). when stripped and ginned before the rainstorm ( sgbr ) nearly all bales were graded as white. bales from modules ginned after the storm, but with a good cover and a good shape ( gcgs ), retained the same high grade. figure 8 this chart illustrates the impact of module shape and cover quality on the color grade of cotton lint. ( sgbr - stripped and ginned before rain, gc - good cover, gs - good shape, pc - poor cover, ps - poor shape ) 503 ox status 0f protectlon module in various conditions of poor cover ( pc ) or poor shape ( ps ), the color degraded to spotted or tinged. modules with both poor shape and a poor cover ( pcps ) caused 99 % of the grades to be reduced due to increased yellowness. in well - formed modules with good quality covers, there was no change in lint grade and value between those ginned before and after the weather event. when comparing the total module value to those with no rain exposure, building a well - formed module prevented about $ 200 loss, and using a high - quality cover prevented a loss of about $ 400. these losses are completely avoidable with adequate protection of the seed cotton. further loss of potential profits in addition to the loss of value associated with reduced lint color grades, the growers also lost potential profit from a reduced gin turnout due to poor module covers. table 1 shows the impact for the producer and the ginner of the different storage conditions. the well - formed modules with good - quality covers had no significant difference in turnout from the modules ginned before the storm. poor shape and poor cover quality reduced the gin turnout up to 8 percent compared to the best condition. in addition, the wet cotton from the poorly protected modules also