attaching the cover to the module. ropes and belts are the common methods of holding module covers on the modules. they are enclosed in sleeves sewn around the bottom of the cover skirt that allows the rope or belt to slip as they are pulled tight. adequate tension on the rope or belt is necessary to keep the cover on the module during windy conditions. some cover designs have two tensioning points : at the bottom of the skirt and midway up the skirt. flat belts normally utilize buckles for maintaining tension ( figure 19 ). ropes are provided with rings that can be used to tie off the tension. it is important that the knots for ropes and buckles for belts are easily untied and unbuckled and do not need to be cut for removal. use only slip knots when tying ropes. when the module is exposed to wind, the cover will raise off the module, tightening the belt or rope, which will cause any knots to become extremely tight and compressed. in this situation, gin workers will typically cut the belt or rope in the interest of saving time. properly figure 19 a belt used to tension the strap at the lower edge of a module cover. belts should be in good condition, and knots should not be substituted for a damaged buckle. set aside damaged covers and use a good condition cover. tied knots and buckled belts will prevent rope and belt repairs that might hinder slippage through the sleeves and undesirable knots or ties not easily untied or unbuckled at the gin. the extra length of rope or belt remaining after tying or belting should be placed inside the module cover to prevent entangling in the module truck or module feeder. high wind situations the belt or rope alone may not be adequate to keep the cover on the module. in very high wind situations, additional ties over the top of the module can be used. some cover designs include tie - down points ( such as loops or grommets ) in an effort to prevent high winds from tearing the fabric, or removing the cover from the module completely. these additional ties are either placed under the module before it is formed, or forced through the middle of the module when the cover is applied. 23 module wrap protection and handling figure 20 baling twine and other plastic materials should not be used as tie - downs. module tape can be used to hold down covers in high wind regions. the tape should be placed under the module before it is formed, and not through the module. ( photo by alan brashears. ) safety tip don