polyethylene film that protects the cotton while also providing a compressive force to maintain the module density. john deere sells the cover materials ; and, at the time of this writing, no third - party options are available. the film materials are sized figure 5 deere round modules stored for transportation to the gin. note the yellow plastic wrap forms a lip on the ends of the modules. to lap up a couple of inches on the ends of the round module so that water flowing on the ground surface cannot enter the seed cotton. figure 5 shows round modules with the plastic film wrapped onto the end. 6 what is at risk when seed cotton is stored? the negative impact of weathering on seed cotton is well recognized. studies have shown changes in color when seed cotton moisture is increased. curley, et al. ( 1987 ) found that most of the coloring effect was due to yellowing. the yellowing was primarily affected by moisture content, days stored, average air temperature during storage and initial temperature of the cotton module. moisture contents above 14 percent moisture sharply increased yellowing. as seed cotton moisture increased from 13 to 16 percent, there was a marked decrease in seed germination, and for seed cotton moisture contents above 16 percent, the seed would not germinate. although increased levels of seed moisture caused a slight reduction in percent oil, there was negligible effect on oil quality index and percent oil as affected by seed cotton moisture content or other storage variables. damaged module covers in practice, module covers are sometimes considered usable as long as they don ' t have large rips or tears in the surface. however, breakdown of the water - resistant coating can seriously degrade protection of the seed cotton. used module covers were obtained from gin inventories and tested under laboratory conditions at texas a & m university. the covers were evaluated on a light table and categorized based on the condition and number of visible pinholes. samples were exposed to simulated rainfall in a standardized test, and the amount of water penetrating the cover samples was measured. the water penetration increased from a near zero level with new covers to an excessive amount for those covers rated as abused. figure 6 chart showing the change in moisture content of the top two feet of seed cotton in a module with module covers of differing use levels. this analysis assumed seed cotton initial moisture content of 10 %. level of module cover use new light moderate heavy abused moisture content 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0 % 7 what is at risk when seed cotton is stored? figure 6 shows how