, set the cover aside for repair and use another. tying a hard knot in a belt will usually result in having to cut the belt at the gin, requiring a more expensive repair. after use, fold and roll the covers properly for easy handling and reuse on the next module. store covers in dry enclosed areas free of rodents. module covers should not be stored in a muddy condition. ultra - violet exposure prolonged exposure to uv rays causes a significant breakdown of the protective coating on module covers. this exposure increases with time ( the number of days on a module in storage ), and solar radiation intensity ( more severe in the summer and early fall months ). significant uv exposure causes the coating to weaken and allows pinholes to form. since this breakdown does not cause large defects, such as rips or large holes, covers are often kept in service well past the time when the coating is able to resist moisture penetration. figure 21 shows coating particles that have broken from the cover and fallen onto the seed cotton. these coating flakes are a potential form of contamination of the cotton. covers should be thrown away well before a situation like this occurs. figure 21. coating breakdown due to extended uv exposure can cause contamination of cotton lint. the blue color on the cotton is flakes of coating that have been caught in the lint. 25 module wrap protection and handling wind wind can have a significant effect on module covers in two ways. at lower speeds, wind causes the cover fabric to flap. flapping causes the cover to bend and flex, resulting in a breakdown of the protective coating similar to that caused by exposure to uv rays. in fact, it is often not possible to distinguish which of these sources is the cause of cover damage. since weather exposure includes both solar radiation and wind, both contribute to the gradual breakdown of the coating. when the wind is very high, the damage can be dramatic and catastrophic, such as when the base fabric of the cover rips along a seam or other stress points ( figure 22 ). figure 22. seed cotton can be exposed to losses when high winds damage the cover. ( photo by alan brashears. ) module exposure to wind varies greatly across the cotton belt. wind concerns are not great in california and arizona, but significant wind damage often occurs in the texas high plains and oklahoma. severe weather in the high plains is often related to passing weather fronts that generate wind speeds greater than 50 mph. such high winds cause intense strains on the module cover, which results in torn covers and broken tie - down straps.