. rain damages cotton by increasing moisture content, reducing color grade, causing rot and heating in the module. these avoidable quality changes affect the price received by the producer, as well as increasing the cost of ginning because of increased drying energy and reduced ginning rate. wind can blow cotton from exposed modules, resulting in less salable lint and seed. 1 a brief history of cotton modules for many years, trailers were the primary method of moving harvested cotton from the field to the cotton gin. until the mid - 1940s, cotton was primarily hand harvested and there was a limited effect of trailer capacity on timeliness of harvesting. the advent of mechanical harvesting significantly increased the harvesting capacity and made trailers the limiting factor in the harvesting - ginning system. larger and increased numbers of trailers and the gradual increase in ginning capacity could not keep up with harvesting capacity. thus harvesters would sit idle until cotton was ginned from trailers and made available to the producer. this extended the harvest season, exposing cotton remaining in the field to undesirable weather conditions that resulted in yield and quality losses. the module builder the need for an improved storing and transporting system led to the development in the early 1970s of the module builder. this was a system in which cotton was dumped from the harvester into the module builder and the cotton compacted into a trapezoidal shape. initially, modules were built on pallets made of either wood or metal. further studies found that the cotton modules could be formed and stored directly on the ground without significant loss of cotton quantity or quality, so long as the ground surface was well drained. a method of hauling the modules from the field to the gin was also developed. initial haulers used tilting beds with rollers and a winch that pulled the pallets onto the truck. modules built without pallets allowed the use of systems similar to those for hay bales. this included a series of parallel chains built into the tilting bed. the chains were synchronized to the ground speed of the truck when loading and unloading the module. the module truck provided a method for transporting the modules at higher speeds and longer distances. when cotton moduling systems were initially adopted, the gins were not adequately equipped to break up the modules. the suction system used to unload trailers was slow and ineffective when feeding compressed seed cotton from modules. early systems utilized either stationary or moving 2 a brief history of cotton modules heads that used several cylinders with lugs to remove the cotton from the compacted module, dropping the seed cotton onto belts or