closer, the angle of the second module coming down the unloading ramp will push the first module out of shape and possibly knock cotton onto the ground. figure 14 shows a module unloaded too close to another module. module staged together must also be closely aligned to allow the truck to pick up both in a single loading action. when cotton falls from the top of the module during unloading, it should be picked up and thrown on top of the module prior to covering, not stuffed between the modules. while this loose cotton between the modules will be picked up by the module truck, it will not be protected by the module cover during storage and any rainfall will cause it to become a wet mass that contacts both modules. covering half - length modules the half - length modules require a 16 - footlong cover similar to conventional covers in manufacture. multiple manufacturers offer figure 15 installing a cover on a case ih half - length module. 16 case ih half - length modules 16 - foot - long covers, and the considerations for selection between those offerings are similar to those of conventional module covers. some individuals have tried to place two 16 - foot modules end to end and use a 32 - foot cover over both, but this practice is discouraged, as it often will tear the large cover when the two modules shift independently. installing half - length module covers the practices used for installing conventional covers are also appropriate for the half - length modules. because of the smaller size, and often shorter modules, half - length covers are easier to apply. because of the auger mechanism used in the compression chamber of the module express picker, the half - length modules have a tendency to have depressions along the length of the module that can collect water during storage. to minimize the potential for water collection, it is important to pull the cover down over the module as much as possible. a loose top surface is more likely to collect water that could potentially penetrate into the seed cotton. 17 john deere round modules forming and staging the john deere 7760 forms round modules, using a mechanism similar to that of a round hay baler. the operation of the moduleforming mechanism is highly automated, requiring minimal operator interaction. the round modules are covered with an engineered polyethylene film that both protects the seed cotton and provides compressive force to maintain the module density. the module - forming control system handles the wrapping of the modules ; and, when wrapping is completed, the module is ejected onto the carrier at the rear of the machine, as shown in figure 16. figure 16