analysis assumed seed cotton initial moisture content of 10 %. level of module cover use new light moderate heavy abused moisture content 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0 % 7 what is at risk when seed cotton is stored? figure 6 shows how the water penetration rates would affect the moisture content of the top two feet of a module during a four - hour rainstorm. the moisture content of the cotton was assumed to be 10 % prior to the rainfall. the chart illustrates that even a moderately used cover ( one that typically would be considered ' ok ' ) will allow the moisture content to increase to levels that will cause grade reductions. effects of poor protection the impact of poorly protected seed cotton modules can be observed in the gin when modules are exposed to significant rainfall. in the 2004 harvest season on the texas high plains, a period of good harvest weather was followed by several days of rain with no wind. large numbers of modules were formed prior to the weather event, and were exposed to the weather while stored in the fields. this situation allowed the comparison of lint grades and ginning performance for modules formed and ginned before the weather event to those formed before the weather but ginned afterward ( simpson and searcy, 2005 ). prior to ginning, observations were made by gin personnel to evaluate individual modules for shape ( good or poor ) and the ages of the cover used ( 3 years or less = ' good, ' more than 3 years = ' poor ' ). the three - year age was a rough indicator of the cover ' s ability to resist moisture penetration. a module shape was judged as good if the module was full sized and had a flat - to crowned - top surface. with these assessments of the module shape and cover quality, the impact of weathering for various conditions was evaluated. with a total of 137 modules and 1967 bales observed, the study provided a ' real world ' assessment of the economic impact of module protection practices. the study found that both growers and the ginner experienced significant economic losses due to poor seed cotton protection. figure 7 shows how the average loan value of the modules in each protection classification was changed compared to the modules of the figure 7 change in lint value for modules with different protection conditions. these values are compared to similar modules ginned before the rainfall event. ( gc - good cover, pc - poor cover, gs - good shape, ps - poor shape ) gcgs pcgs gcps pcps change in module value $ 100 $ 0 - $ 100 - $ 200