modules from a john deere cotton picker, be aware of the slope when dropping off a module from the carrier. while the tendency for the round modules to roll is low, it is possible on steeper slopes. do not allow personnel behind or in the bed of the module truck when loading modules. module trucks are not to back up to the module feeder without direction from module feeder operator or other system to ensure area is clear of personnel. the module mover should be equipped with a back - up warning system to alert gin personnel of equipment moving backwards. do not cross between modules while on feeder table to remove covers. employees have been trapped between modules, resulting in loss of life. loosen the cover on the loading end of the feeder, pull it to the end of the module and then off the side. this strategy will keep workers safely to the side of the modules. do not get on the module floor unless feeder system is off and locked out. when using an automated roller for rolling tarps, the operator should have a dead man ' s foot switch to control the roller power. the rolls are a severe pinch point, and arms have been broken when caught in a powered roller. 29 references asae. 1997. cotton module builder and transport standard. ansi / asae s392. 1 jul97. american society of agricultural and biological engineers, st. joseph, michigan. curley, r. g., b. roberts, t. kerby, c. brooks and j. knutson, 1987. ' effect of seed cotton moisture level and storage time on the quality of lint in stored modules. ' proceedings, beltwide cotton production research conferences, dallas, texas. simpson, s. l. and s. w. searcy. 2005. the benefits of replacing used module covers. proceedings of the beltwide cotton conferences, new orleans, louisiana. pp. 3029 - 44. simpson, s. l. and s. w. searcy. 2008. module tarp performance in weathering tests. proceedings of the beltwide cotton conferences, nashville, tennessee. pp. 778 - 786. 30 introduction............................ 1 protection against weather............. 1 a brief history of cotton modules............ 2 the module builder......