is full. the boll buggy pulls along the side of the harvester, receives cotton dumped from the harvester basket, and transports the load to the module builder. this separation of the harvest and transport functions allows the more expensive harvester to spend more time 3 a brief history of cotton modules harvesting. some harvesters and boll buggies are equipped with live chain drags on the side of the baskets so that, when tilted up for dumping, the cotton can be dumped in a more controlled manner. as more of the cotton crop was stored in modules, the need to maintain the quality of the seed cotton became apparent. seed cotton modules are protected by placing a water - resistant cover over the top surface of the module. early covers were made of canvas, but were gradually replaced by coated plastic materials because of lighter weight and lower cost. recent developments engineering efforts to develop a cotton picker that would also form modules started in the late 1970s and early ' 80s, but it was not until 2007 - 09 that these systems became commercially available. both u. s. cotton picker manufacturers sell harvesters that will compact the harvested cotton into a module. the case ih machine makes a 16 - foot - long unit ( a ' half module ' ) that requires covering after unloading. the john deere cotton picker forms seed cotton into a round module shape of about one quarter of the weight of a convention module, and surrounds that module with a plastic film that forms the cover. these machines represent further efforts to enhance the efficiency of the cotton harvest operation. by performing both harvest and module forming operations, these machines can eliminate the need for boll buggies, module builders, tractors and labor. accomplishing these efficiencies required compromises, however. these machines form smaller modules and have a significantly higher initial cost than conventional cotton pickers. while these new machines produce different module shapes and sizes compared to conventional modules, the need to maintain the seed cotton quality in the package remains. figure 3 shows conventional modules, half modules and round modules together in a gin yard. the image was taken following a rainstorm, and water can be seen collected on the top of some modules. figure 3 conventional, half - length and round modules stored in a gin yard. photo was taken after rainfall, and some modules have water collected on the cover surface. 1 2 4 module types with the advent of the on - board module builders on cotton pickers, growers now have an option for how to package their seed cotton for storage and transport. however