high plains and oklahoma. severe weather in the high plains is often related to passing weather fronts that generate wind speeds greater than 50 mph. such high winds cause intense strains on the module cover, which results in torn covers and broken tie - down straps. complete removal of the tarp can result in seed cotton blowing off the module and wetting of the seed cotton in the module if rain also occurs. the texas gulf coast, mid - south and the southeast can be subject to long periods of high winds during hurricanes and tropical storms. these areas are also subject to long periods of rainfall that have resulted in significantly increased moisture in the module. it is best to build modules with the length of module parallel to the predominant wind direction. cover performance weathering tests have shown a wide range of performance by module covers. extended uv exposure has demonstrated that vinyl and film covers retain high moisture resistance after four years of summer months ' exposure. the performance of coated, woven polyethylene covers has varied from high resistance ( similar to the vinyl and film covers ) to rapid degradation within a single season of exposure ( simpson and searcy, 2008 ). limited testing of cover samples in a wind tunnel has shown similar variability for the coated woven covers and high performance for the vinyl covers. the film cover does not perform well in high winds, as the stresses generated by the wind ' s force cause the film to rip. 26 module wrap protection and handling cost and performance covers vary in price from approximately $ 65 to $ 125 each. as with many products, higher performing covers generally have a higher price. however, the cost of even the highest price cover is less than the lint value that was lost due to poor covers in the 2004 high plains storm event. vinyl covers generally have the highest cost, but perform consistently well in a wide range of conditions. they have the disadvantage of being significantly heavier than the other cover types. film covers are more moderately priced, lighter weight and most suitable for regions where high winds are not expected but significant rainfall occurs. coated woven covers have the widest range of prices and performance. the better performing models are suitable for all regions of the cotton belt, but purchasers should ask for performance histories of the models when making purchasing decisions. no performance standard exists today that can be used to judge the relative performance of available covers. information for making purchase decisions is available from the cover manufacturers. inspection and repair of covers inspection of covers should occur both in - season and at the end of the ginning season. typically, covers are used on three to