the module is being staged for transport to the gin. modules should be staged only in welldrained areas of bare soil, such as turn - rows. if the soil is wet, wheel slip by the truck can cause the chains to tear the plastic wrap. avoid placing the module on cotton stalks, as the movement of the modules on the stalks can puncture the plastic wrap. if possible, avoid staging in areas where the truck cannot access the modules if rain occurs. when staging round modules together for transport or for storage at the gin, lift the module 12 inches or more above the ground. a lower position can result in stalks tearing the exposed wrap on the bottom. figure 18 staging of round modules for transport in conventional module trucks should be done in sets of four. a gap of four to eight inches should be placed between round modules to prevent damage of the wrap when loading ( inset ). ( photos by alan brashears. ) when placing modules together for transport, a 4 - to 8 - inch space should be placed between modules ( figure 18 ). do not allow module ends to touch, as this will cause water to enter the 19 john deere round modules modules rather than to run off down the ends. the modules should be aligned so that the centerlines are within a + / - five - inch band. if not properly aligned, the wrap may be damaged by the sidewalls of the module truck. stage round modules for transport end - to - end rather than side to side. module trucks used to load and transport round modules should be fitted with chains that have rounded cleats that will not puncture the plastic wrap. module wrap protection and handling the plastic wrap typically performs well in preventing moisture from entering the seed cotton. the open ends of the modules will shed rainwater, provided the ends are not touching. modules too close together will hold water between the ends, resulting in wet cotton with the usual potential for reduced - quality grades. when intact, the wrap will shed water on the circumference of the module. punctures and tears in the wrap can occur and will allow degradation of the seed cotton if not repaired. tears can be covered with a water - resistant tape, such as lint bale repair tape. a common problem is that the adhesive at the end of the wrap gives way after weathering, resulting in loose ends. john deere recommends reattaching the loose end with 3m 90 spray adhesive or lint bale repair tape. wrap damage should be repaired before