##hesive at the end of the wrap gives way after weathering, resulting in loose ends. john deere recommends reattaching the loose end with 3m 90 spray adhesive or lint bale repair tape. wrap damage should be repaired before transport, as the loading / unloading actions can make damage more serious. the inside walls of the module truck must be free of burrs or edges that could catch and tear the wrap during loading. 20 module covers two factors are needed to make the modern cotton packaging, storage and transport system effective : a well - formed module that resists moisture collection and a cover that prevents both moisture penetration and wind loss. these principles apply for both conventional modules and modules formed by the on - board modeling harvesters. for on - board harvester modules, the shape of the module is controlled by the machine, but the producer / operator must still be concerned with the integrity of the protective cover. module tarp construction from early days of forming seed cotton modules, protection of the module was recognized as necessary while waiting to be ginned. canvas was used to cover the earliest modules, and the importance of that protection was demonstrated by the development of a standard for cotton modules that included the performance and design of canvas covers ( asae, 1997 ). while modern covers are no longer made of canvas, the importance of preventing moisture from entering the seed cotton is still recognized. top surface materials covers for conventional modules are manufactured from a variety of materials that resist water penetration. all modern covers are made of a plastic material ( typically polyethylene ), either as a film or woven from tapes of differing sizes. the woven fabrics may be coated on either one or both sides, and the coatings can be polyethylene or polyvinyl chloride. 21 module wrap protection and handling uv inhibitors all module covers should have uv - inhibiting chemicals incorporated into the cover material. while the type and quantity are often not disclosed to buyers, butylated hydroxytoluene ( bht ) stabilizers should be avoided because they tend to turn seed cotton yellow when they come in contact with the cotton. high levels of uv - light stabilizers are recommended for all regions of the cotton belt. the three primary types of module cover materials available today are : woven polyethylene with double coated polyethylene laminate ( usually called ' poly ' covers ), polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) scrims with double - coated polyvinyl chloride film laminate ( usually called ' vinyl