- quality covers had no significant difference in turnout from the modules ginned before the storm. poor shape and poor cover quality reduced the gin turnout up to 8 percent compared to the best condition. in addition, the wet cotton from the poorly protected modules also dramatically affected the productivity of the gin, causing an increase in ginning costs. lost profit was not 9 what is at risk when seed cotton is stored? confined to the grower. ginning high - moisture cotton reduced gin productivity and increased energy required for drying. both growers and ginners have an interest in proper protection of seed cotton, and good practices can ensure highest profit and quality. table 1 influence of module shape and cover condition on lint turnout and ginning rate. 10 forming and covering conventional modules maximum seed cotton protection during storage is related to module site selection, along with construction and covering the module to prevent water penetration. the module building sites should be on welldrained areas such as turn rows or field roads ( figure 9 ). under wet conditions, low areas will collect water and saturate the bottom layer of the module, causing deterioration of seed cotton. rocks, clods, and vegetation such as cotton the site should be smooth and firm, free of stalks and grass. do not build modules on figure 9 a well - drained site clear of weeds and cotton stalks and easily accessible by boll buggy or harvester should be selected to build modules. stalks or tall vegetation, as they will be picked up with the module in the loading process. ginning may not remove all foreign matter, resulting in contaminated lint and reduced lint grades. the site should be easily accessible by the harvester or boll buggy and clear of overhead obstructions such as utility lines or trees. if possible, the site should be accessible to module trucks during wet weather. if possible, modules should be built in an area away from heavily traveled roads, thus away from possible sources of fire and vandalism. the previous discussion has shown that properly built modules, along with good module covers, will maintain seed cotton quality prior to ginning. uniform packing of the module during building is important in a properly made module. this requires coordination of the module operator and the operator of the boll buggy or harvester. cotton should be dumped uniformly in even layers of the module builder to minimize the amount of leveling by the tramper ( figure 10a and figure 10b ). harvester and module builders equipped with metering systems can spread cotton the length of the builder, resulting in