off the module and to the location for the next module. 12 forming and covering conventional modules support workers in the area are in view before opening the door. because of the tapered form of the module, when the builder is raised, the tractor can easily pull the builder forward without damaging the module. the tractor must be driven straight forward. attempting to turn the tractor while the builder is over any portion of the module likely will result in damage to the module and / or builder. the completed module should be shaped like a loaf of bread, the top rounded from side to side and ends of the module lower than the center of the module ( figure 12a ). depressions in the module surface will cause water to collect, likely resulting in wet cotton ( figure 12b ). figure 12a figure 12b figure 12 a well - shaped module will have a ' bread loaf ' type shape that causes water to quickly flow off the cover. image a ) shows a desirable shape, while image b ) shows a module with depressions that pond water on the surface. even in a high - quality cover, this collected water will eventually make its way into the cotton. instructions to covering crew rejecting worn or damaged covers when picking up previously used covers from the gin or other supplier, the crew should have authority to reject covers that appear worn or damaged. since damage may not be apparent when covers are rolled for storage, rejection of poor condition covers should also be authorized in the field. after unrolling a cover, if it appears to be in bad shape, it should be set aside and another cover used. these practices by the covering crew should be discussed with your gin manager or supplier. 13 forming and covering conventional modules module covering methods covering modules can be a difficult task, especially when the wind is blowing. crews use various methods. some will unroll the cover on top of the module while the module is still in the builder, others will attach the cover to the rear door of the builder so that the cover is dragged over the module as the builder is moved off, and others will use a ladder to climb on top of a free - standing module to spread the cover. a preferred method is to use the module builder door to pull the cover over the module while moving the builder off the module ( figure 13 ). this method avoids the need for a worker to be on top of the module, but requires covering the figure 13 covering a module by using the builder to pull the cover over the module. the front edge of the cover is attached temporarily to the