##ne with double coated polyethylene laminate ( usually called ' poly ' covers ), polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) scrims with double - coated polyvinyl chloride film laminate ( usually called ' vinyl ' covers ) and polyethylene film. top surface factors the top surface can be formed in various ways, depending on the manufacturer. most covers manufactured today do not have seams in the top surface, because of the potential for leaks. any seams in the top surface of laminated, coated fabrics should be heat sealed to minimize leakage. manufacturers often offer a range of colors for the top surface. color does not make a difference in performance in most regions of the cotton belt. the exception would be south texas, where the more intense solar radiation in the summer harvest period would encourage the use of lighter colored tops. mesh netting plastic mesh netting is sometimes used instead of module covers to limit wind losses in the more arid cotton producing areas, as it is assumed that the modules will not be exposed to rain. the netting primarily serves to prevent loss of seed cotton during periods of high winds, but provides no protection from water. most gin managers prefer the mesh netting not to be used, as the modules are exposed to possible moisture damage. the netting is also difficult to remove at the module feeder and presents a disposal problem for the gin. skirts skirts ( the vertical portion of the cover extending down the side of the module ) are available in a variety of forms. module skirts can be fitted or open - ended. the material on the ends of the cover is typically the same as the top surface. the skirts can be made of coated fabric ( typically of a lighter weight than the top ) or a mesh fabric. the mesh is preferred in regions where seed cotton moisture and cool morning air can cause condensation on the underside of the 22 module wrap protection and handling cover. with the mesh sides, air flow is enhanced across the module top to dry and remove the moisture. manufacturers offer the side skirts in both straight and v shapes. the v shape skirt is considered by some users to be better than the straight sided skirt because they tend to stay on the modules better during high wind conditions. belts and tie - down loops module covers include a method for firmly attaching the cover to the module. ropes and belts are the common methods of holding module covers on the modules. they are enclosed in sleeves sewn around the bottom of the cover skirt that allows the rope or belt to slip as they are pulled tight