##pressive force to maintain the module density. the module - forming control system handles the wrapping of the modules ; and, when wrapping is completed, the module is ejected onto the carrier at the rear of the machine, as shown in figure 16. figure 16 a john deere 7760 cotton picker carrying a finished round module while harvest continues and the next module is being formed. the primary action of the operator regarding the modules is to decide when to drop the module being carried. typically, the finished module is carried until it can be dropped on a turn - row. if the yield is very high, or the row lengths are long, it may be necessary to drop the modules in the middle of the field. this action has no impact on the operation of the picker, but stalks may puncture or tear the plastic wrap. avoiding module rolling because of the round shape of the modules, there is a concern about dropping the modules on sloping ground. when the carrier is lowered for unloading, the modules do roll onto the ground. typically, there is enough flexing of the module shape that the rolling stops very quickly. however, there is a potential for continued rolling if the module were dropped when the picker is headed up a steep slope. in rolling terrain, the operator should drop the modules only when the picker is oriented across the slope to prevent excessive rolling. transporting round modules the round modules can be transported to the gin in conventional module trucks or on semi - trailers. the modules must be picked up where they were dropped in the field, and staged together for pickup, four for a module truck and six for a semi - trailer. the staging can be done using several 18 john deere round modules different implements. the most common system is to use a set of forks with hydraulically controlled spacing mounted on the three - point hitch of a tractor ( figure 17 ). other devices include a mast - type mounted implement that holds the module with the axis parallel to the tractor rear axle or a set of forks on a front - end loader. because the round modules can weigh over 6, 000 lbs., a large tractor is required for staging. the following practices are recommended when unloading and preparing modules for transport : figure 17 carrying a round module with a three - point hitch attachment. the module is being staged for transport to the gin. modules should be staged only in welldrained areas of bare soil, such as turn - rows. if the soil is wet, wheel slip by the truck can cause the chains to tear the plastic