relative performance of available covers. information for making purchase decisions is available from the cover manufacturers. inspection and repair of covers inspection of covers should occur both in - season and at the end of the ginning season. typically, covers are used on three to five modules per season, and each time a cover is removed from a module at the feeder, an inspection should occur. typical practice is to lay the cover out on the floor near the feeder, fold it over to 1 / 3 of the width and roll it up using a powered or manual roller. train feeder employees to observe the cover and look for larger defects such as rips, failed seams, or holes in the top surface and an inoperable belt or rope. if such defects exist, that cover should be placed in a ' do not use ' pile to prevent that cover from going out onto another module. those covers can be inspected for possible repair at the end of the season. inspecting for pinholes and coating degradation is not feasible during the season because of the time required for an adequate assessment. end of season inspection following the end of the ginning season, inspect the covers more thoroughly to determine if they are suitable for use in the next season. one simple means of determining which covers should be removed from the inventory is to use age as a determining factor. the manufacturing date shown on the label can be used to identify covers too old ( a common age limit is three years ) to be used again. inspection and repair can be done by gin employees or by companies that specialize in cover inspection and repair. in addition to the larger defects that can be observed, the cover should be placed on a rack or light table that will allow light to pass through any pinholes in the coating. 27 safety regardless of module type, safety should be high priority for all workers. equipment manufacturers include extensive discussions of safe operating practices in the operator ' s manuals for their machines. all employees should read the operator ' s manual before working around the equipment, and safety guidelines should be followed. the following points are additional practices to avoid injury or death. forming and covering conventional modules train new operators on all phases of operating a module builder. this will include site selection, operation, safety, covering, and module handling. when hooking up a module builder to a tractor, keep hands away from the drawbar. pinching and crushing of hands and fingers can result from sudden motions of the drawbar. do not park module builder in the transport position without inserting safety pins to lock the wheels and prevent