uniformly in even layers of the module builder to minimize the amount of leveling by the tramper ( figure 10a and figure 10b ). harvester and module builders equipped with metering systems can spread cotton the length of the builder, resulting in faster unloading with figure 10 procedures for forming a seed cotton module in a module builder. figure 10a initial dumps should alternate ends of the chamber until the seed cotton level rises to the point where the cotton can be compacted. 11 forming and covering conventional modules figure 10b as more cotton is added to the chamber, the tramper should be used to move cotton along the length of the chamber to achieve uniform loading. less spillage. leveling and tramping should begin immediately after initial dumps into the module builder and continue until the module is completed. after leveling, tramping is started by lowering the tramper until full weight of the builder is on the cotton. the tramper is raised and then moved laterally 14 to 16 inches and compression of the seed cotton is repeated ( figure 10c ). figure 10c the cotton should be compressed with a series of actions with the tramper to uniformly pack the entire chamber. module compacting figure 10d when the module is nearly completed, move cotton to the ends to provide space for the last dump and to form solid ends. packing should be continuous until the module is finished. ends of the module should be packed two to three times more than the center to prevent the ends from sloughing off when the builder is removed. the tighter the module is compacted, the better it sheds rainfall on the sides and the less seed cotton is lost during storage, loading and hauling. low - moisture cotton will require more tramping or compressing as the cotton is more ' springy ' and will not hold the compressed form like higher moisture cotton. removing modules to remove the completed module from the builder, the rear door is opened fully, and the builder raised on the transport wheels ( figure 11 ). take caution when opening the rear door, as the operator will not be able to see the area behind the door. make sure any figure 11 upon completion of the cotton module, the rear door is opened, the module raised on the transport wheels and the tractor is driven forward to move the builder off the module and to the location for the next module. 12 forming and covering conventional modules support workers in the area are in view before opening the door. because of the tapered form of the module, when the builder is raised, the tractor can