slow and ineffective when feeding compressed seed cotton from modules. early systems utilized either stationary or moving 2 a brief history of cotton modules heads that used several cylinders with lugs to remove the cotton from the compacted module, dropping the seed cotton onto belts or into pneumatic conveying systems. taken as a system, the module builder, transporter and feeder represented a revolutionary change in the way cotton was handled between the field and gin. the module system was adopted rapidly wherever cotton was mechanically harvested, because it provided significant operational efficiencies, both for harvesting and ginning operations. module system improvements the initial module system concept evolved with many changes and improvements. the module builder used in the united states has kept the standard 7. 5 - foot wide by 32 - foot base dimensions. module builder height can vary from 9 feet - 6 inches to 11 feet, with the more common height being 11 feet. the choice of heights depends on other equipment used in the harvesting system. additional improvements have been in hydraulic systems, operator controls, expanded wire sides to allow air to escape during dumping, and cabs for operators. a modern module builder is illustrated in figure 1. figure 1 a modern module builder with cab for operator comfort and hydraulic drive system. a tractor provides pto power to drive the hydraulic pump and drawbar power to move the builder. ( photo courtesy of kbh, inc. ) figure 2 the boll buggy is used to transport harvested cotton between the harvester operating in the field and the module builder located at the edge of the field. ( photo courtesy of kbh, inc. ) the biggest change since the early development of the module builder has been larger capacity cotton harvesters. harvester operating width gradually increased from 2 - row to 4 - row and then to 6 - row and 8 - row. the wider multi - row units cannot dump directly into module builders because of the header width. to accommodate the wider machines and keep the expensive harvesters working, a system of using carts, known as boll buggies, was developed to transport the harvested cotton from the field to the module builders that were typically located at the edge of the field. the boll buggy ( figure 2 ) pulled by a tractor follows the harvester through the field until the basket on the harvester is full. the boll buggy pulls along the side of the harvester, receives cotton dumped from the harvester basket, and transports the load to the module builder. this separation of the harvest and transport functions allows the more expensive harvester to